[music]
We still see technicals and momentum in
the driver's seat.
>> What I think matters most of all is the
[music] fundamentals
>> active in AI. But look across the
market.
>> The market is optimism about global
reaceleration.
>> I like the momentum of the market. I
like where it's going.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Thursday, facing down an
interventionist Washington. President
Trump looking to ban big investors from
buying single family homes. At the same
time, he targets defense companies for
buying back too much stock. The White
House is also pushing to boost defense
spending by $500 billion, a 50% increase
[music] for 27.
>> So, it's been a mind-bending 48 hours.
Truly, people are trying to register the
barrage of information coming from the
White House and there are a lot of
questions around what can actually get
through. But there are a couple of
really important takeaways. Number one,
this is a focus increasingly on populism
and catering to poll numbers that
indicate a lot of displeasure. Number
two, expect an [music] expanded fiscal
deficit. We are going to see that one
way or another. And number three, expect
a more militarized United States.
[music] And that was clear by that
latest salvo with respect to that
budget.
>> So, let's get to defense. We're seeing a
big rally for some of those stocks in
[music] the pre-market. There is a
carrot and there is a massive stick.
There's one and the other. And I can
tell you at the moment the carrot's
winning cuz we're seeing that rally
across the board.
>> Whiplash [music] when it comes to these
defense companies overnight. First,
Trump comes out and says you cannot have
massive dividends. You can have massive
buybacks. [music] I am capping executive
pay. Something you would hear from the
likes of say Senator Bernie Sanders or
Senate Senator Elizabeth Warren to your
point about populism. Then he comes out
and says, "Actually, to have this dream
military, [music]
we need $500 billion more. This would be
the single biggest increase we [music]
have ever seen for the DoD to get." And
that is why then you have this whiplash
and [music] they're starting to look
potentially can we get this through? But
Trump's point, the Golden Dome, the
Golden Fleet, all these things he's
talked about are not currently paid for
in the current budget.
>> We got to cover that. We got to cover
housing as well. Housing for living, not
for speculation. President [music] Xi 10
years ago. In the last 24 hours,
President Trump, people live in homes,
not corporations. There are some
similarities in this effort.
>> Yeah, some real surprises that this is
coming out of the White House and I
think that Neil Duta of Red [music] Mack
will express some of that coming up in
just a bit. There is a question here
about whether this is just a trial
balloon as Meredith Whitney was talking
about or whether this was something that
was actually sustainable. You saw that
really playing out in the shares of
Blackstone [music] considering that they
are such a huge owner of single family
homes. You could see that being pulled
back especially because Steve Schwarzman
is a close friend of Donald Trump's and
it has a lot of clout in Washington DC.
A surprise from some people that
President Trump has taken this populist
approach. On the other hand, look at the
polls. Look at the rhetoric coming out
of some of the warnings from [music]
which for elections?
>> Without a doubt, politically popular?
Question we've got to ask this morning.
Is it economically effective?
>> Well, to Lisa's point, Neil Duta is
going to tell you no. When it comes to
also these [music] individuals like
Blackstone that are buying up these
single family homes, it's a tiny part of
[music] the market and at the same time
it actually might make it worse for home
builders to go out there and [music]
want to spend. When you talk about the
politics though, do you know who else
yesterday announced plans to [music]
prevent PE firms and hedge funds from
purchasing homes? Gavin Newsome in
California. An individual who wants to
be president and is running for sure
[music] for 2028.
>> If you are just tuning in, welcome to
the program. Equity futures this morning
pulling back. The rally stores [music]
were down about 0.2%.
Coming up this hour, we'll catch up with
Seash of Principal Asset Management as
risk appetite takes a breather. Neil
Dutert of Renmack as President Trump
takes on corporate America. And I'm Rita
Sen of Energy Aspects as the US pledges
to control Venezuelan crude. We begin
this hour with stocks continuing to pull
back from all-time highs. Sumash of
principal asset management seeing upside
ahead writing widespread fiscal stimulus
monetary normalization accelerating
AIdriven capex and adoption are all
factors that should underpin robust
growth. Sema joins us now for more. Sema
there the kind of structural big picture
stories for the next 12 24 months or so.
Let's talk about the last 12 24 hours.
Sema we're pushing back on executive pay
on capital returns. These are things you
wouldn't typically associate with the
United States. certainly wouldn't
typically associate them with the
Republican party as you sit there in
London and your investors think about
allocating capital to the United States.
Does it give you pause?
>> Well, hi John. I I think it does to some
extent. I mean, anytime that you have
government intervention, it typically
does put off investors obviously by
varying amounts. Um there are some
things that he said there which I think
they don't necessarily add up. I mean in
terms of uh putting off investors from
corporate housing, you almost need them
there to to to uh to encourage greater
supply which would be your best way of
resolving affordability issues. And then
even on the defense side, you know,
trying to put off the investment is is
hardly going to be conducive to to some
of the things that he's saying. The
other thing about this as well is that
coming into 2026, there's obviously been
a lot of optimism. One of the thing
that's been on people's assumptions is
that policy upheaval volatility is going
to be a little bit less than what we had
last year. And of course, as you said,
the last 48 48 hours suggests the exact
opposite. So, I think that there's some
things in here um which may not have
immediate impact, but certainly from an
investor standpoint, this is a a moment
of pause that maybe 2026 is not going to
be as smooth as a lot of people are
anticipating.
>> Well, Sema, let's just reflect on the
last 12 months. So, earnings have been
great. Payroll growth has been
absolutely terrible and investors have
been okay with that because earnings
have been great and the equity market's
been hitting all-time highs. At the same
time, consumer sentiment has been rock
bottom. Now, if you're a politician, to
address the consumer sentiment issues,
you might have to introduce policies
that aren't going to be favorable for
the kind of things that have driven us
to all-time highs in the equity market,
the kind of things that have driven a
long-term bull market in the United
States. See, do we have to think about
those issues a little bit more going
into the midterms and beyond that for a
whole generation of individuals that
haven't participated in this run-up in
the equity market? They're voting for
this stuff and they're going to keep
voting for this stuff and it's the kind
of stuff that's not going to be
favorable for risk assets.
>> It is I think it's it's you know some of
those pockets. So it's a question of how
much does that impact the aggregate. So
you know as you said to your point uh
affordability is going to be the buzz
word. It has been for the last month or
two. It's likely to continue. um how
could we see that playing out? Well,
there's obviously the the couple of
policies around um a tariff dividend.
There's also the idea about maybe
potentially lowering some of the tariffs
that are impacting some of the lower
income households the most. Now those
things ideally if we think about think
that through if they can get passed and
that would suggest that you could see
some upside for consumer discretionary
but ultimately because of the K shape
but mainly because the top 10% really do
account for around half of US consumer
spending it doesn't necessarily move the
needle. What we want to see is a
constructive economic backdrop where
earnings can continue to do well. Um and
it's important that those policies and
at the moment it doesn't look like it
will be but it doesn't as long as those
policies are not going to be impacting
the earnings growth for a lot of these
companies that we're focusing on.
>> This is the reason why SEMA so many
people have looked past some of the
volatility and at least headlines coming
from Washington DC. There is one aspect
though that has remained relatively
unnoticed at least with respect to bond
markets and that is you can expect an
expansion of the fiscal deficit possibly
quite considerably especially if
anything even close to what the
president is proposing relating to the
government relating to the military
comes to pass. Why do you think that's
not shaking up fixed income markets in
any material way?
Well, I think at the moment one of the
considerations is a lot of this won't
get passed through Congress that there's
enough uh I wouldn't say fiscal
discipline or considerable concern, but
there's enough of a push back uh that a
lot of this won't come to pass. But I
think that you're absolutely right in
saying that this is a key risk when
we're looking at the equity market, we
feel pretty positive about the macro
backdrop and earnings. The one caveat to
this though or is that bond yields have
to stay fairly well behaved. You cannot
see a very significant sell-off um
against this backdrop. I mean ultimately
for this year what we're expecting is
that earnings or so equity returns won't
be driven by multiple expansion. They
have to come from earnings and any
significant increase in interest rates,
bond yields uh could be a real hurdle
for the expectations of of I guess low
double digit returns that we have.
>> Well, I guess to build on that, we've
just seen the fastest start to a year
for corporate and government bond
issuance ever. We have seen $260 billion
dollars worth of sales from these
entities over just the first few trading
days. And I just wonder at what point
you start to get real push back from
debt markets that are saying what are we
funding exactly? Is there sort of a
blank check that we're offering to
governments and corporations to just
build to to nowhere.
>> You know, coming into to 2026, I think
everyone's, you know, concerned about
the debt load as they have been for many
many years. And the assumption has been
that 2026 is not the year when this is
going to come to a head. Um, as long as
the macro is okay, as long as the
economy is doing okay, the Fed is
cutting rates, then this is something
the issuance is something that companies
can continue to absorb. But of course,
there is a time limit to that. Now, we
don't know when that's going to be, but
at least just looking at the economics
behind everything which is driving um
the market, we do feel fairly sanguin
about that. We're hoping it's a 2027
story, not a 26 story. Sema, as a global
strategist, when you see what the
president is doing, the state
intervention really in full swing when
it comes to the United States right now,
do you expect this to be a theme this
year for more industries, not just ones
that are critical for national security?
>> Well, I think that interventionist is,
as you said, it's not just it
potentially isn't about just national
security. I think, as I said before, I
think affordability is really key, which
is why we're hearing so much about
housing. uh maybe intervention in or at
least pushing back from companies or at
least stopping them from from passing on
some of the tariff increases. I think
those are all things that we could
anticipate uh for 2026. Uh and I think
as an international investor, one of the
things that we do hear in Europe and
across Asia is these concerns about the
US outlook is one of the reasons why you
are seeing this global diversification
trade just gaining more and more
momentum. people really starting to look
outside of the US and also recognizing
the fundamental strengths that exist in
other countries. Um, I don't think that
we're looking at a kind of a flood of
movement away from the US, but I think
it does just add to the attractiveness
for other markets. How seriously do you
take some of the president's statements?
Because I'm thinking of just housing
itself. He even said, "I will call on
Congress to codify it." This has to be
legislation that goes through the House
of Representatives and the Senate, not
policy by truth.
>> Yeah. you don't have to take everything
with a with a pinch of salt and I think
you know the reason that we're not
seeing the bond market react is because
there is this belief that it's not going
to get through Congress. So these are
very popular words. Some of it ineally I
think will trickle through. Uh but we're
not expecting an avalanche of policy
moves but a lot of policy rhetoric uh
should be expected ahead of the
midterms.
>> Sema always appreciate catching up with
you sea there of principal asset
management. As for the bond market
yields only up by a single basis point
416 this morning on a 10-year maturity.
seems right to point out that this is
not necessarily a 26 story, might be 27,
might be pushed down to 28 and beyond.
But ultimately, you got to take stock of
things. The status quo cannot persist.
The outperformance on Wall Street met
with the underperformance on Main Street
cannot persist. And I always say this
about politicians. Most people do, too.
Politicians care about one thing,
staying in office. And with that in
mind, it's no surprise, no surprise at
all that the policies, the economic
policies of the left and the right
converging because they're the policies
right now that are popular. Now, they're
going to keep initiating these kind kind
of policies on both the left and the
right. They're almost guaranteed for
years to come. These are the kind of
policies that aren't going to be
welcomed on Wall Street and beyond.
>> Right now, all that Wall Street is
focusing on are the sweeteners, the idea
of what potential oomph the market is
going to get or the economy is going to
get from the one big beautiful bill and
tax cuts. They're not looking at any
kind of massive fiscal expansion of the
deficit. And that ultimately is what
would happen if some of these proposals
went through. And I think that is the
disconnect. the bond market and the
stock market. There seems to be a truck
you can drive through the opening
between the two of them. And you just
wonder at what point that gets
reconciled.
>> I'm pleased you brought up the bond
market. $500 billion suspended.
>> I mean, military,
>> it would be actually 600 billion versus
the budget this year. And according to
the committee for a responsible federal
budget, it would add $5.8 trillion to
the federal deficit over the next
decade. So that definitely is a number
that would get people's attention.
>> There goes the tariff revenue. Exactly.
Again, we've done that a few times.
>> I think it's already gone.
>> Yields this morning, as I say, high by
just a single basis point, 416. Lots to
talk about throughout the program today.
Let's give an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief.
Here's Yahihara with more. Hey Yahara.
>> Hi John. President Donald Trump saying
he'll ban institutional investors from
[music] buying single family homes. The
president's posting on Truth Social,
people live in homes, not corporations,
[music] and saying he would talk more
about the issue at the World's Economic
Forum in Davos later this month. Trump
also saying he will request a more than
50% increase in next year's military
budgets to $1.5 trillion [music] dollar
as you all were just discussing. The
president also calling for military
contractors to cut [music] dividends and
buybacks. He called out RTX specifically
threatening [music] to stop doing
business with the missile maker unless
it invests more in its production
capabilities. [music]
and protests erupting in Minneapolis
after [music] an ICE officer shot and
killed a woman in a car during a
confrontation. President Trump saying
the officer appeared to be acting
[music] in self-defense, alleging the
victim acted in a disorderly and
obstructive way. The Minneapolis mayor
[music] has called on ICE to leave the
city. That's Bloomberg. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Thanks for the update.
More from Yhara in about 30 minutes
time. Up next on a program, ramping up
defense spending. Nobody has our
weapons. Nobody has the quality of our
weapons. The problem is we don't produce
them fast enough. We're going to start
producing them much faster. We're going
to be very tough on the companies.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with Doug Retica
of International Capital Strategies live
from New York City this morning. Good
morning.
[music]
>> [music]
>> It importers on a three-day winning
streak on the S&P 500. Down yesterday,
down again this morning, pulling back by
0.2% on the NASDAQ 100 down by about a
quarter. On the Russell were down by
0.4. Check out the bond market. Yield
tired by just a single basis point 416
on 10. Really whips by the economic data
in the last 24 hours. ISM was [music]
pretty decent. Jolts not so great. Then
the challenger job cuts we've seen
earlier this morning. Lisa, they're
okay.
>> Yeah, they came in uh given at the
lowest level going back to July [music]
of 2024 just highlighting that you are
not seeing the firing. You saw a similar
thing in the separations aspect of the
Jolts report even though the headline
number of the Jolts data wasn't that
great. [music] What you did see was the
quits rate actually ticked up and you
didn't see the layoffs really go up. So
what do you do with a lowf fire lowire
type of environment that has just been a
quagmire for all economists trying to
get their hands around it?
>> Look for more data.
>> Get more data [music] at 8:30 Eastern
time. Been saying that for months.
Jobless claims just around the corner.
8:30 about 2 hours away. Under
surveillance this morning ramping up
defense spending.
>> Nobody has our weapons. Nobody has the
quality of our weapons. The problem is
we don't produce them fast enough. We're
going to start producing them much
faster. We're going to be very tough on
the companies. We have the best weapons
in the world, but it takes too long to
get them. We're telling our defense
contractors, you're going to start
building faster.
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
President Trump whipsing defense
contractors, taking an aggressive stance
on stock buybacks while also pushing for
a major increase to spending.
Bloomberg's Jonathan Tamari joins us now
for more. Jonathan, welcome to the
program. Let's talk about that increase
and the carrot and the stick that the
president issued just yesterday.
Yeah, I think first off I think it's
important to keep in mind that this has
the spending piece at least is going to
have to go through Congress and with the
president increasingly talking about
aggressive action around the world and
cutting Congress out of that
decision-making process, I think it's
very unlikely Democrats are going to
write him such a big check. I do think
you're seeing kind of two different
conflicting aspects of the president
here. That populist side of him wants to
take on big businesses and show that
he's not in the pocket of corporations
against the military side. the
militaristic side that kind of sees
these big successes like we saw in
Venezuela and might want to attempt more
of them.
>> So Jonathan, looking at the defense
contractors, I think a lot of people
will be watching this program saying
today, you know what, these guys, these
companies defend massively on government
contracts overwhelmingly. So maybe the
government should have a say on how much
executives are being paid since they're
enriching themselves off the taxpayer
money that comes in. Jonathan, my
question would be, does this kind of
thinking, this kind of push back against
executive pay, stock buybacks extend to
other sectors outside of big government
contractors?
>> I think you're starting to see more of
that from both sides of the parties. I
mean, we when you talk to people in
politics, they'll say the divide is less
now right, left, center left, center
right, and populist and not populist.
And there's a populist strain going
through both parties right now. And that
includes taking on corporate powers. And
you hear that even from people who come
from some moderate districts. It's not
only the fringes of the parties anymore.
So I do think this is going to be a
continuing feature of politics going
forward.
>> Jonathan, appreciate the update. We'll
catch up with you again in the next
hour. At least you've talked about this
a few times. The two sides just
converging.
>> Yeah. And when you want to know the why,
you take a look at the fact that wages
for the lowest income earners have
actually fallen well below the increases
in wages that you've seen at the high
income earners. And you see that
inflation is being felt much more
significantly at the low income
specters. that divide getting bigger,
fueling that connection between the
circle.
>> To build on that conversation, Doug
Reker joins us now, the founder of
International Capital Strategies. Doug,
welcome to the program, sir. A real
populist twist to the last 24 hours. Is
that a flavor of more to come for the
year ahead going into the midterms?
>> I think everything's about the midterms
in 2026 and we're only in the first week
of January. So, I think it's going to
get much much more um political as we go
and much more fantasy land. I mean, what
we're talking about this morning already
is is kind of crazy, right? I mean,
you're you're living in a world in which
you're throwing around numbers like $500
billion of additional defense spending
and an enormous overreach of
presidential and and political authority
into the corporate sector. Yes, the
defense sector is is deeply tied in with
the military and industrial complex to
the US government, but still this is
stuff that a year ago even we would have
we we just would have thought was crazy
stuff. So yeah, I think everything right
now is Trump talking and everybody
reacting and then as Sema said said in
the last se sector, a lot of people are
saying, "Yeah, but it's not going to
really happen." Um, and so how much of
the rhetoric translates into reality and
what do the markets do in the meantime?
I I'm just very concerned about the
disconnect between Trump's rhetoric, um,
what's really going to happen on the
ground, whether it's Washington,
Venezuela, Greenland, or anywhere else,
and how the markets interpreted. I think
it's it's just very hard to predict this
year. Well, Doug, even if there was
appetite in Washington for $500 billion
more going to the DoD, could the United
States afford it?
>> Of course not. And again, let's just
remember this is fighting the last war.
So even if there was an appetite to
spend $500 billion, is there anybody in
the defense industry that if you ask
them honestly would say, "Let's spend it
on the same stuff we've been spending it
on." Or are there any lessons that we
all learned from Ukraine that warfare
has changed? Drones are where the future
is. Uh you know, a whole bunch of nimble
new fangled weapons that do not cost
anything near what these big huge
projects have traditionally cost the
American taxpayer and others. That's
where it is. And Trump seems to be
ignoring that. So whether it's 500
billion spent on X or Y, it doesn't seem
as if any of it makes any sense. in the
context of where the defense ind
industry is right now and and where all
the other spending uh commitments Trump
is making seem to be in in relation to
the 21st century demands of the global
economy.
>> He also went after individuals that are
buying up single family homes, those
institutional investors. When you talk
to clients, are they concerned about the
state capitalism that we are seeing out
of this White House?
It's funny, they're not as concerned as
I think they should be because I think
that that the the premise of your
question is the the mantra of what
America used to excel at innovation,
entrepreneurialism and a divorcing of
state control over um you know, let's
not call it Wall Street over business
innovation and the ability for markets
and investors to put their money where
they think the investor returns are
going to be highest based on their risk
tolerance and innovation. That's all out
the window if the government and in this
case one particular person, the
president, gets to make these decisions
somewhat unilaterally. I mean, without
blurring the the conversation here, if
you listen to what he's saying about the
Venezuelan oil industry, I mean, it it
seems as if he wants to decide
personally what's going to happen to the
revenues that he's decided he's going to
take and spend how he wants to make
them. If I'm an investor, if I'm in the
business community, I'm scratching my
head and saying, "Is this the country
that we thought the American economy was
premised on?" And the answer is not as
clear as it was day before yesterday.
>> Doug, you started by saying it's all
about the midterm elections. And if I
were cynical, I would say that things
are getting increasingly bombastic
coming out of uh the White House, and I
wonder how much that's tied to something
particular having to do with the midterm
elections. Is there something you're
keeping your eye on to sort of get a
sense of how many proposals from the uh
from Washington DC we can expect to see?
>> Well, I thought that the underplayed
story of the week, if there is such a
thing, was when Trump went to the
Republican House and said, "If you guys
don't win the midterms, I'm going to get
impeached." And I think that was a tell
for what's on Trump's mind. Not that he
cares so much about being impeached and
ousted from office. It's highly unlikely
that the Senate would convict even if
the House impeaches. But I do think he's
looking at a political environment that
is much more fragile than he would like
it to be. That's going to impact his own
confidence in how he rolls out these
policies. He's obviously increasingly
autocratic in his rhetoric at least, and
Congress is increasingly fragile in
terms of the House majority. So looking
at the midterms is going to color
everything because that really
determines whether he can continue to
act the way he's acting or whether his
political capital starts to dwindle and
maybe on an accelerating basis as we
roll through 2026. You know, there's
been a lot of people in Washington who
say once Trump's favorable ratings drop
below 40% consistently, then suddenly
some Republicans might actually think
it's in their interest to start bucking
him. Well, he's not consistently below
40%. But he's kind of nudging down
there. You've got a couple of 36s and a
couple of 38s. Maybe they're outliers,
but they're more consistent than we've
seen before. I think that's going to
impact Trump. I think it's going to
impact how the Congress looks at backing
Trump on some of these wild ideas. And
we're in the second week of January. So,
you know, this has really got a long run
to play out as we run into the midterms.
But midterms are really all what 26 is
going to be about. I think
>> it's going to be quite a year, Doug.
It's good to see you as always. Doug
Rica there of International Capital
Strategies. The president setting the
tone for the year ahead.
>> And when it comes to the midterms, this
is also what we saw play out yesterday
in [music] Congress. You have nine
Republicans voting to advance a bill
when it comes to the enhanced Obamacare
subsidies. These are moderate
Republicans in swing [music] districts.
Why? They want to get reelected.
>> Big year ahead. Coming up on the
program, Neil Dutter of Renmack as
President Trump vows to ban corporations
from buying homes. Plus Danny [music]
has your morning mover with some big
moves for defense names.
[music]
Looking at the potential for a two-day
slide on the S&P 500. Down only slightly
this morning. We're down by 0.2% down
[music] by a quarter of 1% on the NASDAQ
100. So much to talk about the last 24
hours. It's a shaky moment for the home
[music] builders, for Blackstone
yesterday. A more interventionist White
House on the horizon. Lots of
suggestions. Will it actually result in
actual [music] policy? I've got no idea.
But to Lisa's point, in the bond market,
if you're looking at an extra 500,
[music] $600 billion in defense
spending, then the Treasury market's got
to have a say here, right? At the
moment, tens doing okay at 416.
>> How much is this just a bond market
participants saying this isn't going to
happen? It's [music] not going to pass.
Because at this point, if you're looking
at the committee for a responsible
budget and saying it could increase the
deficit by 5.8 8 trillion. [music]
That's not pocket change, right? That
suddenly is a significant amount,
especially when you counter in interest
[music] payments. So, it raises a
question. Are they ignoring it? Is
everyone just shrugging it off? When is
a risk factor [music] actually becoming
a risk factor considering that people
are looking to just completely look
through any rhetoric?
>> It's been somewhat sny in the bond
market if I can say that. The 10-year
bond yield in a range of 4 to [music]
420 for something like the last four
months, and we're kind of in the middle
of it at the moment at 416. [music] As
we count you down to the opening, about
2 hours away, 3 hours away. Let's get
you an update on some morning movers.
Here's Danny with more. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. I'm I'm starting there with
the defense companies because what a
roller coaster it has been with Trump
yesterday. His executive order of no
dividends, no stock back capping
executive pay. That sent all of these
shares lower, specifically RTX. He
called out Rathon and saying that
they're not going to do any work with
the US government until they figure out
how to more fastly [music] develop
weapons for the government. And then as
you mentioned late yesterday, we got
another truth post where Trump says that
they're going to increase massively
increase defense spending. And that's
why you're getting a rally in the
pre-market 5% 7% 7.6% [music]
in the case of Northrup Grumman.
Elsewhere, uh, Abby, those shares are
falling this morning alongside [music]
Revolution Medicines. They are a maker
of cancer treatments. Late yesterday,
the Wall Street Journal reporting that
Abby was close to a [music] deal for
buying it. Uh, shares surged 23% of
Revolution Medicines. They're back this
morning because Abby told Bloomberg that
nope, we are not buying the company. I
should say Wall Street Journal they are
sticking with their story and you're not
completely seeing that premium getting
priced out of Revolution Medicine.
Again, only down about 10% [music] in
the pre-market. Finally, some earnings.
Constellation Brands reporting
yesterday. This is the beer maker of
Medel and Corona. Those shares up 2.3%.
[music]
They surprised to the upside. They
reaffirmed their fullear guidance, but
expectations were so low. RBC pointing
out [music] that thanks to
profitability, things did well. But it
is the concern around Hispanic
customers. The company emphasized this
saying that because of what's going on
in the political environment, Hispanic
customers are pulling back in the US and
a loss of what they called 4,000 calorie
jobs like construction, agriculture.
[music] Weakness in that sector is also
leading to lower sales. John,
>> interesting read through. Danny, thank
you. Appreciate it. More from Danny in
the next [music] hour on our radar this
morning. President Trump demanding a
$500 billion increase in annual defense
spending, calling on firms like RTX to
freeze buybacks and dividends,
threatening to cut them off unless they
pour those profits back into production.
Elsewhere, the US expecting to control
as much as 50 million barrels of
Venezuelan crude. In an interview with
the New York Times, President Donald
Trump saying the US will be extracting
Venezuelan oil for years, adding, "We
will rebuild the country in a very
profitable way." And finally, Chinese
officials reportedly planning to approve
some imports of Nvidia's H200 chips.
sources telling us here at Bloomberg the
technology will be blocked from military
use but will be allowed for select
commercial use.
>> Yeah, and this is something that had
been increasingly expected based on
rhetoric coming from both sides. There
had been some questions over the past 24
hours about whether the Chinese
government was going to freeze this
based on some of the tip for tap between
the two nations. But what what is clear
is that China still relies on US
technology in a significant way. So for
all of the goals of trying to be
self-reliant, clearly that is not the
case. And the interreation continues.
>> It clearly was baked in based on what
Jensen Wong was hearing directly from
customers. He told Ed Lello, "We are
seeing an indication that there is a lot
of demand that these individuals want to
go in with the purchasing of it." What I
find interesting is that they're going
to be barred from military use,
sensitive government agencies, critical
infrastructure, and state-owned
enterprises due to security concerns.
They start thinking about how China is
operated and run. Who actually is going
to be able to maybe buy some of these
chips? The stock this morning positive
by about 0.5%. Want to watch going into
the opening bout. Let's talk about
housing. President Trump blindsiding
Wall Street posting on Truth Social he
will immediately take action to ban
institutional investors from buying
single family homes. Trump saying quote
people live in homes not corporations.
Neil Data of Renmack had this to say.
Seeing limited impact, he writes,
"Institutional investors represent a
very small share of sales like 2%.
Institutional investors are a nice
bogeyman, but this is not the issue
facing housing." Neil joins us now for
more. That was data light. This is data
full fat. Going after Blackstone is what
a tired lip should do, not DJT. Neil,
it's good to see you. Walk us through
why this might be politically popular,
but might not be that effective.
>> Well, it's not effective for the reasons
I just mentioned. I mean, it's uh it's a
very very small share of sales. Um, you
know, in some cases you can make the
argument, particularly in the Sunb Belt
areas, um, the fact that you have
institutional buying is actually
allowing people to rent in homes that
they otherwise wouldn't be able to buy
in the first place. So, uh, you know,
they provide a sort of backs stop, I
think, particularly for home builders.
Um, you know, I'm sort of a markets uh,
guy. I mean, if you know, any good
housing um policy, uh if it's going to
incentivize construction, uh you know,
you'd probably see the home building
stocks rally on the news. Uh instead, uh
you didn't. Um you know, so you know,
obviously the homebuilders sold off. Um
but this isn't really the main issue
facing uh facing housing, John. The main
issue really is people don't want to
sell their homes because they have low
mortgage rates that they don't want to
give up. So that that to me is the main
issue. But um you know this is sort of a
nice kind of bright shiny object for the
uh for the economically illiterate.
>> Now what you're getting at is important
because for a lot of people the starting
point of this conversation is we have a
supply shortage. What can we do about
it? Are you pushing back against that?
>> Yes. It's very challenging to say that
you have a supply shortage um with home
prices declining in many parts of the
country. It's very difficult to say you
have a supply shortage with um new
unsold completed uh inventory
rising uh going into this year. We
actually I mean home builders if you
look at some of the private data home
builders are sitting on the most
completed unsold inventory that they
have uh really since 2010. Uh so how is
that consistent with uh with the housing
shortage? I mean I think the housing
shortage conversation is really it's
sort of a fake concept I think. I mean
it's really at what interest rate at
what price? Um you know clearly if you
have prices declining uh you know in the
southeast parts of the west um you know
it's hard to make the case u and that's
where the homes have been getting built.
I mean it's hard to make the case that
you have a shortage uh there. Neil, you
said that it's an attractive proposal
for the economically illiterate. For the
economically literate, some people might
point to interest rates, like you just
said, and the key here is getting
mortgage rates low enough to actually uh
encourage people to sell the homes that
they're sitting on. How do you think
that this president is going to try to
do that at the same time that there is a
sort of expansion of the fiscal deficit?
>> Well, I mean, the you know, the options
are limited. Obviously, you can't um you
know, Fed policy obviously isn't the
only thing that drives longerterm
interest rates, right? So, um you know,
I think there's things the Fed the
administration can do by putting people
on the Fed um that maybe they're willing
to uh you know, for one, I mean, Mickey
Bowman goes around talking about selling
NBS out of the Fed's portfolio. I think
she should probably stop doing that.
That could be helpful. Um, you could
maybe talk about Operation Twist on the
Fed's balance sheet. That could be
helpful. But, uh, in terms of something
the administration can do, I mean that
the Fed, the president can influence
those through potential future Fed
nominees. Um, but, uh, you know, I think
the thing the administration can do is
maybe try to use uh, you know, the help
of Congress and potentially using the
tax code to mitigate the effects of
mortgage rate lock in. I just wonder,
Neil, if at a time where people are
looking at populist proposals coming
from the White House, the potential for
$2,000 checks, the potential for the
expansion of fiscal uh stimulus
throughout the economy, how much does
that push the Fed away from cutting
rates more aggressively and actually
increase the risk of inflation despite
this concern around the housing market?
>> Well, I think Lisa, the proof of the
pudding is in the eating, right? I mean,
I think, you know, to what you're
talking about with the defense
companies, um, you know, it's how much
of this is real, how much of this is
rhetoric, um, you know, in a midterm
election, um, you know, I think getting
any kind of proposals around housing,
um, especially because there are lots of
entrenched kind of interests, uh, it's
probably very difficult to get it over
the finish line.
>> Neil, does this set up the president
potentially when you think of things
like lock in and mortgages, set him up
for potential confrontation with banks?
because what you're basically talking
about is what the United Kingdom does,
which is portable mortgages.
>> I mean, portable mortgages could be a
very uh good idea if you um if you think
about it. Um, you know, I'm not a legis
housing legislation expert, but as I
said, I mean, I think a generally good
first principle is how do we get more
building, not how do we limit who can
buy? Like, I think that should be the
driving principle for how we think about
about uh addressing housing challenges
uh going forward. Well, the president
all summer, the Treasury Secretary
talked about potentially they've been
weighing this idea behind the scenes of
creating and talking about that there is
um really an issue when it comes to
housing going full throttle. So, this
could just be the beginning of it. What
advice would you be giving to the
Treasury Secretary at this moment?
>> Well, well, I mean, thank you for for
that, Anie. I'm not sure that I'm the
one to be giving him advice on uh on
housing, but as I just mentioned, it's
about trying to uh increase building,
not limit buying. And I do think that,
you know, look, I mean, this is options
are limited, but as I said, there are
two things that the the administration
can do. Number one is to put people on
the Fed that can find innovative ways
using the Fed's balance sheet to bring
down longerterm interest rates. I just
mentioned Operation Twist. So, talk to
the future nominees about that. Uh
there's a potential to nominate two
people this year. Um and the second is
use the tax code to mitigate mortgage
lockin effects. The main issue going on
with housing is that people don't want
to give up their low mortgage rate to
get if they wanted to get into a new
house. So, you can use the tax code to
basically do what home builders have
been doing over the last number of
years. you know, we'll buy you down um
for a couple of years to sort of
mitigate the costs of going into a
higher mortgage rate product. Um so it's
essentially getting at that portable
mortgage sort of through the tax code.
>> Neil, I think we got to finish on why
we're even talking about this. The
midterms are coming up at the end of the
year. Affordability is very much in
focus and there's some real tension in
this country at the moment. Economically
speaking, the top of the country, the 1%
doing tremendously well. Anyone with
assets, fantastic. And if you own your
home already, brilliant. Especially if
you've got a 2% mortgage. Neil, for a
lot of other people who don't have
access to all of that, Bremo, thank you.
>> Anytime,
>> Neil, for a lot of people who don't have
access to all of that, they're looking
at solutions that are coming from the
extreme ends of the political parties.
And Neil, I just wonder as an economist
how you're thinking about these issues
going forward as to whether the status
quo can persist.
>> Well, I think the the notion of
affordability, I feel like it's almost
like a catchall, right? I mean, um, it I
think to to me the the main story going
forward isn't going to be people being
worried about affordability because of
actual prices, but because they lack the
employment opportunities to pay for
things. And um, and that to me is the
next sort of challenge uh, going
forward. Um, I think it's interesting. I
mean, when when the public is worried
about things like inflation, um, you
know, I think in some cases they're sort
of fighting the last war. And I do think
that actual inflation rates will
moderate a lot this year. Um, but that
doesn't mean that household anxiety is
going away because I think it'll be
something else that people have to worry
about, which in this case will be
employment. So, um, that's sort of how I
see things. Um, it's sort of a
challenging time. I think if you get
some rate cuts, um, later this year, um,
you know, we'll probably be in in much
better shape going into 2027.
>> Now, who do you think is going to be the
bogeyman if the labor market starts to
roll over through GFC? when we came out
of that obviously the natural target was
the banks. What's the target this time
around?
>> Well, I mean in some cases um the um
it's the government itself that's the
boogeyman, right? I mean if you look at
obviously what's going on with Doge. I
mean the president took to truth at one
point saying that one of the reasons why
the unemployment rate had gone up was
because of uh you know sort of the right
sizing of the federal government. I mean
that's only partially true. Um but uh
you know in some cases he's the
boogeyman. uh and uh state and local
governments are also very very weak. Um
but if you um you know look it's going
to be very very challenging to sort of
say uh you know when you have sort of a
broad-based labor market slowdown to say
to point to one person or that person uh
you know going after the entire
corporate sector um you know in an
economic slump uh and creating
additional uncertainty on their backs is
not necessarily the best way uh to turn
things around. So, um, you know, to me,
I think it's always best to sort of
focus on how are we going to grow
things. Um, and, uh, and you know, step
one is always do no harm. So,
>> Neil, it's good to see you. Happy New
Year. Thanks for joining us.
>> Happy New Year. Congratulations, by the
way.
>> Hey, thanks buddy. Appreciate it. Neil
Data there of Ren Mac. Neil Data on the
situation, the economy in the labor
market. And we didn't talk about one
particular target. Maybe it's going to
be tech. you know, at the same time
we're developing all these AI things
which could be tremendously effective
the economy and drive a massive bounce
in productivity. I certainly hope so. If
it happens at the same time that you're
not seeing great employment prospects,
that's going to be a natural target,
>> especially because it's going to
increase prices, particularly with
electricity. So, people will see the
prices going up, but they won't
necessarily see the employment options
also increasing. We've been talking
about how this has been a White House
that has been a champion of big tech in
the United States. You're already
starting to see the push back from small
corners in both parties.
>> And when it comes to electricity, you
already saw that in the mid midterm
elections. When it comes to Virginia,
when it comes to New Jersey, this was
one specific issue. And Virginia itself
has a ton of data centers. So already
this is becoming a political problem and
it's just going to get worse as we drive
into November.
>> If you're just tuning in, welcome to the
program. Futures a little bit softer
down by 0.2% with an update on stories
worldwide. Back with us with your
Bloomberg brief is Yahihara. Hey yhara.
>> Hi John. President Donald Trump saying
Venezuela will buy only Americanmade
products with the money it receives
[music] from oil sales. The purchases
will include American agricultural
products, he says, medicines, medical
devices, devices, and equipment to
[music] improve Venezuela's electric
grid and energy facilities. Meanwhile,
Secretary of State Marco Rubio telling
lawmakers that recent threats [music]
against Greenland do not signal an
imminent invasion. Rubio saying the
United States goal is to buy the island
from Denmark. He plans to meet with
Danish [music] and Greenlandic officials
in Washington next week. President Trump
says the US needs Greenland [music]
as a matter of national security.
And OpenAI is introducing chat GPT
health, a feature that will allow users
to analyze medical test results, prepare
for doctor's appointments, [music] and
seek guidance on diets and workout
routines. Things we already do, right?
CHBT [music]
health will be able to connect with
electronic medical records and wellness
apps. [music] Open AAI says the service
is meant to supplement not replace
doctors. Dr. Bloomberg brief John
>> Yara. Thank you. To Yahara's point, you
[music] know, things already do.
>> Oh, yeah.
>> Blood test results, push them in, take
my name out. Yeah.
>> Yeah. Exactly. Like like anyone I know.
>> I don't rely on them.
>> But the truth is, doesn't that sort of
remove some fun [music] from life? You
know, if you're going to have that Big
Mac that suddenly your blood tests are
just going to go off the charts.
>> Oh, right. Okay. Yes. [music] No, I just
mean when you're going to speak to your
doctor about some results and they send
you the results and you can't read them
properly and they don't make any sense
at all.
>> That's true. That's true. You just an
early read. I don't want to shock when I
get that phone call.
>> I I don't disagree.
>> I've already seen [music] them. I've got
a decent understanding.
>> I know.
>> And I've got these fantastic questions
to ask. It's like, who is this guy? Why
does he know so much? [laughter]
>> According to page 323 [music]
on the menu.
>> Up next on the program, making
Venezuelan crude great again. This was a
deal made by the president and his team
with the Venezuelan interim authorities.
All proceeds from the sale of Venezuelan
crude oil and products will first settle
in US controlled accounts at globally
recognized banks.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with Amriita Sen
of Energy Aspects.
Equity
[music]
futures are lower by 0.2% 2% on the S&P
down by about a quarter on the NASDAQ in
the commodity market [music] positive by
1.5 on WTI still sub 60 5681 [music]
under surveillance this morning focused
on energy making Venezuelan crude great
again
this was a deal made by the president
and his team with the Venezuelan interim
authorities all proceeds from the sale
of Venezuelan crude oil and products
will first settle in US [music]
controlled accounts at globally
recognized banks to guarantee the
legitimacy and integ integrity of the
ultimate distribution of proceeds and
those funds will be dis dispersed for
the benefit of the American people and
the Venezuelan people at the discretion
of the United States government.
>> So here's the latest this morning.
President Trump said to meet with major
energy executives tomorrow as the US is
gearing up to rebuild Venezuela's crude
industry. Amita Sen is the founder and
director of market intelligence at
Energy Aspects and she joins us now for
more. Amita, it's your job to explain
just how this is actually going to work
in practice.
I think the first set of conversations
uh the US exe um company executives have
had with Chris Wright um what is coming
out is exactly what we have been
highlighting. No company is going to
jump to be the first to go in. Uh we are
looking at uh infrastructure which is
heavily uh destroyed, depleted. It is
going to take hundreds of billions of
dollars and years to really revive the
Venezuelan uh upstream industry. So
there needs to be significant guarantees
um by the government. We've also talked
about the fact that these companies
don't even know who they are dealing
with in Venezuela, right? Is the
government there legitimate? Will any of
the contracts being signed honored later
on? Um let alone pedestas huge amounts
of debt. So this is an extremely
complicated situation. Um, I appreciate
a lot of numbers have been thrown around
in terms of, you know, the new oil that
could come out of Venezuela, but we are
really talking about a trade flow shift
as the main repercussion of what's going
on there. So, I think you're going to
see more oil go to the US at the expense
of China, but not necessarily
significant increases in Venezuelan
production because even just half a
million barrels per day of Venezuelan
production increases we calculate would
take about $10 billion in at least 2
years.
>> Amita, how much oil was going to China
when this all happened? How significant
are these flows as a source of power for
that nation?
uh China was taking about 500,000
barrels per day of Venezuelan oil. It
fluctuates but you know on average about
5 500 or so um and the US was getting
about 140 to 150,000 barrels per day
those were the Chevron flows that were
uh allowed under the licenses agreed
earlier last year. So the the point is
is that if you then redirect all of
those uh Chinese flows to the US as well
we've done some calculations. We do
think the US refiners, which are very
complex, they do want the heavier crude
oil discounted um Venezuelan oil, they
could take about 600,000 barrels per
day, uh backing out some Canadian cruds,
backing out some Mexican cruds, uh and
even backing out some US shell
production itself because, you know,
again, when you're optimizing a refinery
diet, uh you and you're putting in these
heavier barrels, um you will displace
some of these other crude. So, I think
that's the main shift. And then China
will have to figure out the Chinese
teapotss who used to buy um Venezuelan
oil will have to find alternatives. They
tend to buy sanctioned oil. So you're
looking at more Iranian. And if they
can't get any more of that then they
will just have to cut runs and others
will have to make up for it.
>> And Marita, overnight the Wall Street
Journal says that Trump repeatedly
raises the idea of bringing oil prices
to $50 a barrel. What kind of friction
can we see between the White House and
OPEC?
Well, look, OPEC have already started
the unwind process last year. They've
added, you know, well over two two and a
half million barrels per day of
production. Now, actual increases have
lagged quite significantly because a lot
of countries were already maxed out. Um,
and I think that's going to be a talking
point later on in the year in 2027, not
right now. The fact that OPEC um spare
capacity, you know, is pretty much
running out and concentrated in the
hands of very few. Um, OPEC can't really
do very much more. They are they've
paused over Q1. Um, you know, they could
resume and we do expect them to resume
the increases uh for the second tranch
that they unwinding after that. Um, and
I think it really does show the fact
that oil prices are still holding at
about $60 despite the fact that
everyone's talking about this massive
surplus that something isn't adding up
somewhere. Demand is better than
expected.
>> Can we see prices go up if they
continuously go after the shadow fleet?
Yes, that's definitely a possibility. To
be clear, um, we are building. So, I'm
not talking about a market that is
tight. There is a surplus in the market.
The question is how big a surplus?
Because if people are expecting four 5
million barrels per day of surplus, then
we can go to $50. But if not, and they
go after the shadow fleet um, and for
instance, keep more oil off the market.
Like we just heard this morning, Russian
unsold oil is over 100 cargos right now.
That's what's keeping the market tight
and prices at 60. Otherwise, we probably
would be a lot lower today already.
>> Amita, thanks for jumping on and
breaking it down. Amita send there of
energy aspects. Crude positive this
morning by 1.6%. That shallow fleet
coming into sharper focus in the last
week.
>> Oh, absolutely. Especially yesterday
when we actually saw the US board a
Russian flag ship. The Wall Street
Journal overnight talked about how Trump
wants $50 a barrel. The reason why I'm
focused on this is because he just had
Muhammad bin Salman at the White House.
They want $90 a barrel. At some point,
are we going to see a bit more of an
aggressive OPEC trying to get the price
higher? I'm not sure the executives he's
meeting with in the next 24 hours want
crude in the 50s do they?
>> Well, if you look at what the Financial
Times is saying as some of them and I've
heard some of this behind the scenes as
[music] well. Pretty much the rhetoric
is we're lining up to go for to lunch at
the White House. We're not exactly
lining up to go to Caracus. [music]
>> Yeah, I think that's a no.
>> Yeah, I think that right now. [laughter]
How do you do that with social media
potentially skewing [music] your plans?
>> In the next hour on Bloomberg
Surveillance, we'll catch up with Jim
Zela of Apollo. Bloomberg's Jonathan
Tamari, Mirror Pandit of [music] JP
Morgan, and John Lavalo of UBS from New
York City. You're watching Bloomberg TV.
[music]
The economy is kind of treading water.
>> Not a lot of hiring, a lot of caution.
We've just been consistently trending
higher in the unemployment rate.
>> [music]
>> strengthen the labor market. I think
eventually could cause some of that soft
economic data to catch up.
>> The economy could grow even when we have
a labor market that's not growing much
at all.
>> This is Bloomberg surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, the second hour of
Lindberg Savannah starts right now. And
your price action looks like this.
Following three days of gains on the S&P
500, we hit pause in yesterday's session
and pulled back again this morning.
[music] Down by 0.2% on the S&P on the
NASDAQ down by a third on a small caps,
the Russell [music] negative 0.4. The
week ahead shaping up as follows. Lots
of jobs data in the next 24 hours. The
big [music] one, of course, payrolls
Friday just around the corner. Later
this morning, jobless claims at 8:30
Eastern time. That's one to watch. A
sprinkle of data earlier on this
morning, not so [music] bad. Yeah, right
now we've gotten challenger job cuts
announcements that really fell to the
lowest that we've seen going back to
July of 2024. And this builds an other
not so bad news. It isn't runaway the
labor market is going gangbusters kind
of news, but it is better than
potentially we're falling off a cliff
type of news, which is the reason why
people are watching for jobless claims
[music] later this morning. If you see a
reiteration of the low read that we got
at the end of last year during a very
mudded month, do people get a sense that
this is a labor market that's actually
in recovery, [music] not in decline? We
are all long this economy. I hope we see
that bounce. If we don't see that
bounce, I imagine we'll see much more of
this populist policies coming out
[music] of Washington.
>> Non-stop policy news flow yesterday. And
we just got a note out from Tobin Marcus
[music] of Wolf Research talking about
the fact that this is the first second
week of January. We've had a capturing
of Venezuelan leader. You have the
president talking about minimizing stock
buybacks and dividends with the defense
companies and then whiplashing them and
saying actually though I might want to
spend $500 billion more on defense and
then also talking about what he can do
when it comes to housing and
affordability. And [music] Tobin says
these competing priorities all colliding
that they're just going to collapse
under its own weight.
>> Defense contractors have been whipsawed.
Home builders Blackstone been hammered
in the last 24 hours. Check out the bond
market. Lisa write a point to this.
Yield [music] high by a basis point or
two, 416 in between the range of the
last 4 months or so, 4% to 420 [music]
on 10. But is this market wide open for
an extra 500600 billion of defense
[music] spending?
>> I mean, essentially it's saying yes,
right? I mean, essentially it's saying
we can absorb it because if they're
actually considering the fact that you
have a $5.8 trillion increase in the
fiscal [music] deficit, you would expect
yields to rise a bit more. You have to
wonder when you hear all of the
proposals coming from the White House
over the past 36 hours. [music]
What do we solidify on? It is an
expanded deficit. There is no hawk left
on Washington uh in Washington DC. And
if that's the case, why isn't the bond
market reflecting that a little bit
more? Bond market might be looking at
what is going on in terms of the numbers
in [music] the House of Representatives
and the Senate and just thinking, okay,
$500 billion more defense spending.
That's not going to get through. Maybe
they'll give him a little more for the
Golden Iron Dome and the gold golden
fleet. And then [music] Trump himself
when he talked about the housing truth
said, "This is my idea, but I need
Congress to codify it." Well, guess
what? I don't think Congress is lining
up to cif.
>> It's a pretty depressing morning for the
senator from Kentucky, isn't it,
Renpool? [music]
>> How do you think he feels about all this
stuff?
>> Uh, not not well. And he's been quite
honest about that. Him, Thomas Massie, a
lot of these individuals [music] are
not, again, not lining up for this.
>> There aren't many of them left down in
Washington, as Lisa said. Equities right
now, the S&P 500 down by about 2/10en of
1%. Great lineup this hour. We'll catch
up with Jim Zela of Apollo as equities
pull back from all-time highs, mirror
panted of JP Morgan as markets await a
fresh labor print and John Lavalo of UBS
as President Trump's latest housing
reforms rattle Wall Street. We begin
this hour with stocks edging lower as
investors wear a slew of new risks.
Apollo global management president Jim
Zelta writing the following 26 US
outlook is consistent with a
stagflationary environment and we expect
interest rates to be higher for longer.
Jim joins us now for more. Jim, good
morning. Happy
>> good morning John. How are you? Happy
New Year.
>> I'm well. It's good to see you. I want
to pick up on this headline from our
friends over at the FT in the last
month. Apollo's cutting risk and
stockpiling cash. Is that true? What are
you guys up to?
>> Well, I I I would say that we've always
been known as a disciplined investor. We
talk about purchase price matters. We
talk about alignment with our investors.
And I think that what that statement is,
it's really about the gauntlet for
approving investments at Apollo has
gotten higher and higher over the last
year or so as we see an environment that
down the fairway, I'll use a golf
analogy, down the fairway, you've got a
lot of great things going on. Uh, you
know, massive capex cycle, good economic
growth, consumer in solid shape, um, you
know, a variety of great attributes.
That being said, the rough where there's
lots of challenges between geopolitics,
between the concern about inflation,
between the concern about the return of
invested capital and AI, there's a
variety of left tail items that have
certainly grown in stature. Um you know
we as I as I listen to some of the macro
commentary here I think there's a great
deal of humility about the macro view of
how the predictions as I me I've said
here many times we sat here after SVB we
all thought massive uh capital slowdown
and spending and and credit crisis the
US economy really was massively
resilient. You guys talked earlier about
what's going on with the with the
deficit. I think it's a little bit it's
the economy stupid. The US economy,
people just don't want to short the the
great momentum of what's going on and we
have a we have an administration that's
very politically savvy about populist
topics. He's been very responsive. But I
again I just back to us back to the
question you had. We're putting money to
work. This week was a busy week. We
announced 6 billion of deals of
transactions. All great companies.
Again, we're leaning into larger
companies that are part of the global
industrial renaissance. uh one with B
Brad Jacobs a 40 35 year winner in the
building product space the second one
with Russell Investments really
simplifying their capital structure and
then the last transaction was very
interesting actually it was uh for
Veiler XAI it was really a sale lease
back uh on a massive amount 5 billion of
of of Nvidia chips so all all three
really interesting transactions but
really well structured downside risk and
I think that's our view right We want we
want to be investing capital. But you
got to acknowledge you can wake up on a
on a Saturday morning and see us uh with
you know activities around the globe
that really enhances the the tail risk
of geopolitics. You can get a stroke of
the pen announcement yesterday with
regard to housing. And so I think you
have to be very very careful about how
you invest long-term at scale.
>> To extend the analogy though to your
point the fairway is getting narrower
the rough is getting deeper. In the last
few years it's not been that way.
allocate to risk and you'll perform.
You'll do well. Sounds like a tougher
environment.
>> The analogy for golf for those who play
a lot of golf, it's worth the US Open.
US Open's known for tight fairways and
really punitive rough. And if you cape
in the fairway, you're going to be a
great victor and you're going to have
great success. I I think there's going
to be as as last year will remind us,
you can have some bumps in the road
during the course of the year that
definitely change the trajectory on
liquidity, on momentum, on risk
appetite. So, but I I think the
long-term trend is is quite positive.
Uh, but I do think you have to be very
measured about how you execute your
business model.
>> So, if that's the US Cup, do you go to
the Ryder Cup? I'm sorry. [laughter]
There you go.
>> No, I mean the idea do you expand your I
I Googled that and evidently I bombed
it.
>> But I just am curious if you go
overseas, you know, because to diversify
away from the United States. Well, we we
we've been we've been I would say to
account that we we've been very vocal
and I've been vocal on this on this
program about Europe. You know, we we
when you look at the the needs of
governments around the globe, uh
especially in Europe, in Germany in
particular, so more so in the UK, the
government's uh demand for capital far
outweighs their ability to participate.
And so we want to be part of that
renaissance in that part of the globe in
places like like uh Japan and Australia.
We want to be part of the retirement
solutions uh and some of the global
industrial renaissance with a changing
banking system. Um you know we're we're
not a uh broadly speaking a a developing
an emerging markets investor. So while
we have a view on what's going on in in
Latin America today, that's a a
negligible part of our capital. That's
just not what we do. We're really a a G7
uh and larger economy investor. So, you
were talking about how you're getting
more conservative. [clears throat] Uh,
yet corporations and governments are
tapping the market at a record pace so
far this year. Uh, about $260 billion of
bond issuance from governments and
corporations around the world have been
issued, the fastest pace ever. Yeah. Is
this because there is a lot of optimism
out there or is this because they see a
small window that could close and they
want to get in?
>> I I don't think it's a small window.
When you look at the numbers that have
been put out by the large financial
institutions, the big banks about net
issuance in the IG market, um it's north
of like it's it's anywhere from 800
billion to a trillion to net issuance.
Uh which is one of the largest numbers
in the last 10 to 15 years. Same can be
said in the high yield and the leverage
loan market. The net issuance is going
to be quite high. So with with real
rates and real yields fairly high in a
historic basis with a variety of
pensioners and investors around the
globe looking for long duration yield.
It's a pretty powerful mix of supply and
demand in terms of taking that that that
uh that overhang if you will. I think
one of the big questions is does the
equity new issue IPO calendar actually
come to fruition? And the second thing
that people aren't talking about is
where oil is right now. It's very
deflationary. If it were to stay at
these levels or even go lower, again,
we're talking about all the things that
can go wrong. I'm a credit guy. You
know, bonds don't go to 200, they go to
zero. I'm a I'm I'm cautious by
definition. But, you know, in in oil at
these levels on WTI at 56, 57, that's
very deflationary and very positive for
economic growth. So, you know, again, I
think that there's a variety of of
balancing acts here going on. But, you
know, to John's first question, I I
would say that we think that there's a
variety of of issues that one needs to
deal with, but at the same time, you you
want to be putting money to work in
large scale. Now, if you look at the
traditional high yield market, the
triple C LBO buyout, that activity is
just not happening in scale anymore.
It's being funded in in e in private
credit, which I'm sure we'll talk about
because of our big white paper in
December. But at the end of the day,
it's it's really about credit and the
ability for this IPO calendar to come to
fruition.
>> Let's build on some of this, Jim,
because I can tell you sort of openly
and honestly what I've struggled with. I
don't know what to look at anymore.
Payrolls has been a bit of a head fake
in the last 12 months. We've seen a real
deceleration in payrolls growth, but
it's not been relevant to the
performance of risk assets more broadly.
Something that you and the team have
talked about for a number of years now.
when we saw interest rates go to four
pushing 5%. Lisa and I were talking
about this for the best part of 12
months. How on earth is this economy
going to deal with four to 5% interest
rates and we dealt with that just about
okay what should we be focusing on
>> I I think that you know I think to
answer that question it's really we talk
about the the changing backdrop of
market structure the reality is in the
US today um it's been an extended credit
cycle it's harder to have a real
economic recession because of the
diversity of funding across the board we
have the healthiest banks in the globe
We have a securization market that's
alive and well in record uh size of
issuance that disperses a lot of risk
around the economy in terms of balance
sheets. You know, you have a consumer in
pretty good shape. You have a housing
market where 40% of folks don't have a
mortgage. I'm not saying we're not going
to have an economic cycle. We will have
an economic cycle. We will have a credit
cycle. But if the post SVB environment
is any lesson to us all, because of the
advances and the evolution of the US
economy since the GFC, it's a lot harder
to to push over this machine than it had
been in the past. The transmission
mechanism of the Fed that used to be
instantaneous is not what it used to be.
We saw it in the last two years with
housing in the US because of the 30-year
mortgage concept or the lack of a
mortgage versus countries like the UK
where most folks are on a five or
sevenyear floating rate mortgage that
has an immediate impact on the breaks of
the consumer in the economy. Not the
case in the US. So the the strength, the
breadth of market structure, how
companies finance, the role of banking,
the ability for Fed, the Fed to actually
have that transmission mechanism of
raising rates and slowing the economy
down. It's not what it used to be. It's
not your father's economy.
>> Jim, you're going to stick with us.
Apollo's Jim Zer with us for the next 15
minutes or so. Let's give you an update
on stories worldwide this morning. Let's
cross over to Yhierra to get an update
on your Bloomberg brief. Thank you,
Hierra.
>> Hi, John. More than 1,000 companies are
lining up in hopes of recouping their
[music] share of billions of dollars in
duties. The US Supreme Court is poised
to decide the fate of President Donald
Trump's sweeping tariff policy as early
as tomorrow. The administration has
collected approximately [music]
$133 billion in duties under the
Emergency Authority as of December 14th.
Meanwhile, oil traders and refiners are
rushing to position for access to
Venezuelan crude [music] after President
Trump said the US will take control of
up to 50 million barrels [music] of the
country's oil. In an interview with the
New York Times, the president saying
only time will tell how long the US will
maintain oversight of the country. But
[music] when pressed, he said it could
be much longer than a year.
And here in New York, Governor Kathy
Hokll and New York City Mayor [music]
Zoran Mamdani announcing a major new
investment for child care in the city.
The plan would provide free child care
for all 2-year-old children. No details
were released about the cost or how it
would be paid for. Dr. Bloomberg John
[music]
>> Yhara, thank you. Appreciate it. More
from Yhara later this up next on the
program, restoring the American dream.
>> I am bringing those high prices down and
bringing them down very fast. I will
announce some of the most aggressive
housing reform plans in American
history.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with Bloomberg's
Jonathan Tamari, and we'll get a little
bit more from Jim Zeltza of Apollo.
[music]
>> [music]
>> Live from New York City. Welcome back to
the program. Looking ahead to some job
numbers a little bit later. 8:30 Eastern
time. We'll get jobless claims tomorrow
[music] morning. 8:30 Eastern time.
We'll get the payroll report. The
estimate in our survey at the moment.
We're looking for 70K. That estimate
just kind of inching higher in the last
24 hours. In the equity market, the
price action looks like this this
morning. Futures negative by just 0.2%
on the NASDAQ [music] down by about a
third. And Sylvanas this morning
restoring the American dream.
We're bringing our economy back from the
brink of ruin. I am bringing those high
prices down and bringing them down very
fast. You will see this in the new year.
I will announce some of the most
aggressive housing reform plans in
American history.
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
President Trump taking a swipe at big
business, announcing his plan to ban
Wall Street from buying single family
homes. The White House looking to
address housing affordability ahead of
the midterms. Bloomberg's Jonathan
Tamari joins us now for more. Jonathan,
the president's own words, I will
announce some of the most aggressive
housing reform plans in American
history. What can we expect?
>> Well, we saw his announcement yesterday
that he's looking to ban big
institutional investors from buying new
homes. The idea is to try to drive the
price down there. Uh the big challenge
there is is will that stand up legally?
Will he need approval from Congress? And
how much housing do they really own? If
you look at the overall market, it's a
relatively small amount that's owned by
these big institutional uh investors.
>> Jonathan with the latest down in
Washington. Jonathan, thank you. With us
around a table, Apollo's Jim Zela,
Apollo, not Blackstone. That's an
important distinction. Jim, you're not
big in this space.
>> No, as a as a matter of course, we are
not.
>> Why historically has that been the case?
You know, it it's it's something that
was not it was not down the center of
how we thought about investing our
capital. As as I've reminded you all for
many times, for for us, most of our
capital, half of our capital is our own
balance sheet. And we wanted to focus
more of our activity on the big choke
points of housing. Housing is a is a
massive issue. Uh we saw it in New York
City with our election affordability
around the country. uh there's a lot of
demographic reasons why and we've just
chosen to be much more on the choke
points of the strategic growth. How do
we how do we actually help uh create
more property for uh home builders and
developers? How do we really create the
choke points of building products and
things like that? But we've just not
pursued this for for a variety of
strategic activities. But I think what's
going on right now is the president is
saying a symbolic northstar laying out,
but they're also going to work on a
variety of massive strategic uh
initiatives that will allow the social
good to be dealing with this problem
because it's not only in the US, but
it's in the UK. It's in a variety of
other countries. We don't have the
zoning issues that the UK has. Uh but
certainly in terms of affordability and
starter homes and whether it's
initiatives to uh allow for subsidized
mortgages or or or quicker building of
standardization uh or a relaxation of
the zoning rules. I mean these are all
activities but we're we're not in the
core franchise of this so it has no
impact on our franchise.
>> You're not directly exposed but do you
think this idea of banning large
institutional investors from buying up
single family homes is the right policy
approach? you know, we we we have an
administration that's chosen to do a
variety of things, whether it's taking
equity in large technological companies.
Um, I think there's there's better ways
to actually solve these strategic
issues. They have identified challenges
that are affecting many many Americans
and many companies, but at the same
time, I think there's broader policy
strategies that that can that can help
out to solve those problems. And I and I
would say for us, you know, you you
don't get to the size that we've gotten
without participating whether it's
retirement, the industrial renaissance,
or other big initiatives that help
society out. So, we want to be on the
strategic helping side rather than the
debate about about policy.
>> What is strategic helping? I mean, we
saw this with JP Morgan's recent fund,
their $1.5 [clears throat] trillion
fund. Where are you expanding?
>> You know, kudos to JP Morgan and Jamie
for doing that. It's it's really
consistent with, you know, pro- US
policy. We're do we we're in dialogues
with them and and many many others on a
variety of funding the choke points in
the defense initiatives. We're doing a
variety of things in the housing in
terms of land banking for builders and
otherwise. All the things we've been
doing in technology getting chip
building back in the US. Those are all
the things that we think are good for us
long-term whether you're on either side
of the political party agenda.
>> Can you frame capital needs for us in
the private space at a moment? I'm going
to reduce it down to one company. Yeah,
>> feels like a lot of this year is
centered around open AI, their capital
needs and whether they'll be met or not
and that's going to set the tone for
risk appetite for the year ahead.
>> How small is that compared to the bigger
pool?
>> You know, um when you look at the I the
number I used earlier was over the next
five to six years, it's been bantered
around that the um the hyperscalers in
aggregate are going to need 5 to 7
trillion. um you know when you think
about how that's going to be filled
about a third of it will be filled from
their free cash flow not open AI but the
other six um the uh high yield market
the the investment grade market the
structured finance and ABS market they
will all fill that when you identify the
gaps it's another trillion of the five
to 7 trillion about a trillion trillion
five has not been identified you know
that seems like it's a huge number as I
was mentioning to you earlier US economy
30 30 trillion plus economy global
economy almost 125 trillion so it's a
big number it's definitely going to
strain and have an impact on the IG
issuance markets where these companies
were negligible participants now they're
going to be 10 to 15% participants but I
think I think that's a when you say to
me what what are the questions that I
would love to know for year end 26 or 27
I'd love to know where oil is I'd love
to know where 10-year bonds are and I'd
love to know what the turn on this capex
of broad broad AI data centers is and if
you knew those those would be great
demarcations of success. But I I do
think there's a big question about the
return on invested capital on some of
these companies.
>> There's a bigger question about return
on invested capital for the biggest in
the private debt and private equity
space because some of these deals are
really large and increasingly they are
the market and there have been questions
about how do you outperform when you are
the market. How much are you seeing
actual performance, actual returns
inherently go lower as you try to be
safer and as you do invest in such big
size?
>> You know the transaction we did for for
Baylor and and uh XAI doubledigit
amvertising transaction with the value
of the chips being zero in 5 years.
That's that's good risk return for us.
Um, you know, again, I think that OpenAI
is a unique company visa v some of the
others because of the the strong cash
flow and balance sheet those companies
have inherently versus the growth
initiatives of OpenAI. But, you know,
certainly it's going to be a very large
question and I think that around the
globe more and more investors because of
the pension challenges, they're looking
for long duration yield. That's a bit
different than we've had historically in
the last 10 or 15 years. Um so I I think
there is plenty of demand to be a scale
solution provider. Um I I think the big
the other big question will be how many
of these companies actually are able to
hit the equity market and what will the
equity calendar really absorb over the
course of the next year.
>> Do you think that stay private story is
coming to a close? These companies have
got to go public. you know, I I do think
that with the uh VC and private equity
overhang, there's a greater demand for
liquidity from a variety of investors,
whether it's endowments or foundations
that are knocking at that door. So, I
think there's no doubt there's an
ability to stay private a lot longer,
but depending on um your constituents,
employees, and others who might need
liquidity, that's a challenge you're
going to have to confront.
>> Jim, good to see you.
>> Always good to be here. Thanks for being
here, sir. Jim Zer, Apollo Global
Management President breaking down
capital markets worldwide. So, we need
the 10-year bond yield, the price
accured, and the return on investment of
some of these big investments made in
the last few years.
>> Yeah, there are a lot of whatifs, which
is a reason why I think a lot of people
feel paralyzed. But if you're going to
be an optimist, and you know, I'm not
one, but if you are going to be an
optimist, you could say the fact that
people are so skeptical looking at all
the potential tales might give you hope
that maybe we could avoid some of them
given the fact [music] that, you know,
people at least are having an eye of
skepticism. I hope so. Yeah,
>> you seem cheery at least first few weeks
at 26. [music]
>> Pessimistic with a smile.
>> See if it lasts.
>> Coming up on the program. Sounds deadly
like a bomb filler. [laughter]
>> Mirror and panda JP Morgan's going to
join us as investors await a double dose
of employment data. Plus, Danny's going
to drop by with your morning movers.
[music]
Live from New York City this morning,
the opening battle about two hours away.
Equity futures pulling back by 0.2%
[music] on the S&P 500. Pulling back
from all-time highs in yesterday's
session and adding to the move so far
this morning. On the NASDAQ, we're down
by a quarter. On the Russell, we're down
by 0.4. Switch on the board and get to
the bond market. Twos, 10, 30s. This
yield curve very much in focus going
into [music] the data of the next 24
hours. Jobless claims 60 minutes away.
Then tomorrow, the payrolls report just
around the corner.
>> Yeah. And I'm curious about what kind of
response there will be in Marcus. if you
get a better thanex expected payrolls
report given the fact that we've gotten
a number of data points on the labor
market that have been a little bit more
positive. What do you [music] do with
that? Does that mean that the Fed
doesn't have to cut rates? Is that a
negative or is this a positive when this
sort of low higher low fire kind of
economy that's grinding forward at
stalls pace but be it not falling off a
cliff.
>> Challenger job cuts not as bad. ADP just
about okay. [music] ISM services pretty
solid. What does it mean for the Duffs
on the committee? We'll speak to one in
about 30 minutes [music] time. Governor
Steven Meyer pushing for some big
interest rate cuts at the Federal
Reserve. Does that case get less
credible when you start to see that
bounce back in the data?
>> Yeah. And watch wages too. I mean, not
just the unemployment rate, but also
wages at a time when there really is a
question if there is all this fiscal
stimulus, how does it pour through into
the economy? Also curious to me, if the
labor market is doing so much better,
why did equal weight underperform so
significantly yesterday? Equal weight
actually had the worst performance going
back uh to the end of last year. So, you
look at all of this, you put it
together, it's a mush. It's really
confusing. What does the Fed do with
that?
>> It's a pretty interesting start to the
year, isn't it? Fascinating. It really
is. We've seen some big moves in the
equity market. Home builders, defense
contractors, Blackstone. Danny's going
to pick a few of those themes out. She
joins us now for more. Hey, Danny.
[music]
>> Yeah, John. I'm starting with those
defense names cuz those are the ones
that are still actively moving. We've
seen a little bit of ebbing in action
from Blackstone and some of the housing
stocks. They are all rallying today and
that's because we wake up to a different
message from the president than we did
at the close yesterday. [music] Before
the markets closed yesterday, he had
issued this new order uh a freeze on
buybacks, a uh freeze on a lot of
corporate action, including pay for
executives until a lot of these defense
companies can figure out how to ramp up
production. And then after the market
closed, he said that he wants to
increase the defense budget massively by
about like 50%. [music] So then you get
a rally from RTX, Loheed Martin, North
or Gman up as much as 8 and a half%.
[music]
Uh elsewhere we did have some earnings
from Applied Digital though shares up
4.3%. It's a company involved in the AI
infrastructure buildout. [music] So, you
can guess why they did well. It's all
about the AI exposure. In fact, their
revenue was 250% higher [music] than at
this time last year. So, a huge boom for
them. Switching to commodities, uh,
Alcoa, that gets a downgrade [music]
from JP Morgan to underweight, saying
that their preference is copper over
aluminum. Makes sense given the record
rally that we've seen in [music] copper.
And just saying that these shares don't
present relative value anymore. So, they
are down 3.6% [music] in the pre-market.
John, Danny, thank you. Thanks for that.
More from Danny in the next hour. On our
radar this morning, President Trump
saying, quote, "Only time will tell how
long the US will maintain oversight of
Venezuela." The president telling the
New York Times, "The situation could
last years and the country will be
rebuilt in a profitable way." Elsewhere,
the president also moving to ban
institutional investors from buying
single family homes, saying in a post on
social media, "People live in homes, not
corporations. It's part of the White
House's plan to address housing
affordability ahead of the midterms."
And finally, more than 1,000 corporate
entities joining the legal fight against
the president's sweeping global tariffs.
Costco, Goodyear, among those suing for
refunds. The Supreme Court is
considering the legality of the levies
and could release a decision as early as
tomorrow.
>> This just highlights how messy it will
be should the Supreme Court overturn the
use of AIPA to put on tariffs in this
manner. It's clear that a lot of these
companies are not making necessarily a
political statement as much as they are
trying to get their ducks in order for
them to ask for refunds as soon as this
is overturned if it is overturned. And
it highlights how much remains uncertain
in this environment. I mean, we've moved
on from tariffs, but that hasn't
necessarily really left the page. If the
Supreme Court comes out and says AIPA is
illegal, it doesn't automatically mean
you get your refunds to your point of
these companies getting their ducks in a
row. You actually have to sue. And this
will be handled mostly by the lower
courts. You have to sue in order to get
your money back. Which is why we're
likely going to see a lot more companies
take legal action when it comes to the
US Court of International Trade because
if you don't put that legal action into
effect, you might not get your refund.
>> A lot of the markets moved on. They feel
like this is last year's news. This is
all done. And for that reason, you've
got people telling you, Lisa, that maybe
even if we get that decision that goes
against the administration, you're not
going to see much price action in
response. This is the reason why I'm a
little bit concerned that maybe they've
moved on a little bit too quickly.
>> The budget deficit. I know people are
going to say, why are you so focused on
the budget deficit? But the part of the
issue, it is true. That's what a lot of
people are saying. But we saw the market
trade in that way that this was viewed
as a positive because it was going to
save off some of that budget deficit.
Well, how much does that further expand
the deficit if this is overturned?
>> And I also feel like I just keep, you
know, beating a dead horse, but it has
to be said if I is overturned, they will
still enact tariffs. It will just be
legal avenues that then we can go into.
Some of them never even used before the
122, but they have a list. The
administration obviously has been
working on this. They have a list that
they can use. They just don't want to
use it because it's much easier to have
the blunt use of AIPA.
>> Lisa is right to keep turning to the
bond market though. If you look across
fixed income, the global fixed income
universe, and just take a look at
sovereigns, developed market sovereigns,
the 10-year Treasury was an outlier.
Everything else was soft yields and up.
the 10-year Treasury yield was down and
there's a lot of questions as to why and
I think many factors behind that move,
but one of them is the tariff revenue
and the perceived benefit that was going
to provide to the Treasury market.
>> Yeah. And if you think about what other
provisions they could put on, where is
the political will in a midterm election
year to put on some of those extra
tariffs, even if it does help the
deficit? Because you aren't seeing the
bond market freak out. So, right now, at
what point does the bond market have to
wake up to this idea of budget deficits
once again? Well, it'll take more than
what we've evidently just seen because
right now it seems pretty sleepy.
>> Maybe five six00 billion dollars of
defense spending might move the D. But I
don't know that it has if it can get
through Congress.
>> If it can get through Congress. We've
got more data later on this morning.
Let's turn to the economy. The labor
market data on deck with jobs claims due
in about an hour from now. Payroll's due
tomorrow. Of course, Mirror Pand of JP
Morgan asset management expecting jobs
to grow by roughly 50,000 per month,
noting a quote tenuous equilibrium
between low demand and low supply to
keep unemployment rate low. Mera joins
us now for more. Mirror, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> That's kind of good news because the
unemployment rate has been drifting
higher. Do you think we're going to
stabilize around these levels?
>> I think we can see some degree of
stabilization because you do have this
very low labor demand and when you look
at labor demand and payrolls in
isolation, it looks like this is the
type of chart that we're going into
recession. But the reality is when you
pair that with the low supply dynamics
that we've been seeing, the most
important number there is that
unemployment rate. Because if these low
supply, low demand dynamics can stay in
check, admittedly in a tenuous
equilibrium that we can't exist in
forever. But if for now they can remain
in check, then overall that's a good
sign for the labor market that it's
frozen but not melting down. What does
this do for markets? I mean, I'm just
it's one thing to have confusion around
the actual data. It's another to figure
out how markets treat the sort of
lowfire lowire dynamic. Is it just sort
of ignore, move on? For now, it seems
like the markets are more focused on
inflation. And certainly, if you look at
the Fed, I mean, I think there's a lot
of calls for the Fed to cut up rates a
little bit more given some of this
weakening in the labor market dynamic.
But look no further than the Fed's
December SP. You have 2.3% growth. You
have unemployment stable, a little bit
lower than it is today, and you have
inflation not reaching 2.0%
until 2028. In that environment, do we
really require cuts? And when we think
about, especially considering some of
this housing news coming out, when we
think about the benefit to consumers and
businesses of cutting rates further, I'm
a little bit stymied here because if you
think about the consumer, affordability
is still the challenge. Inflation is
still the challenge. Cutting rates has
not been effective so far in bringing
mortgage rates down a whole lot. And
then you look at businesses. I look at
that NFIB small business survey. Their
number one problem is still quality of
labor. It's finding the right people.
cost of labor ranks at number seven. By
the way, inflation is number two. So,
clearly still on businesses minds. And
then you look at things like interest
rates, that's dead last. So, I'm not
getting from consumers or businesses
that rate cuts are what they're
demanding. What they should do and what
they will do, two different things. And
right now, the market is pricing in at
least two, if not three rate cuts
through the remainder of this year,
barring any balance sheet move. Do you
think that that will cause the 10-year
yield, to all things being equal, rise,
not fall? Well, we have some some
competing factors here. If you're in an
environment this year where growth is
hot, and we do think it's going to be a
hot then cold and K-shaped type of
economy in 2026, then that puts some
upward pressure on the 10-year. If you
think about inflation still remaining a
bit sticky, and we know that right now
some of that shelter component is likely
to be under represented until probably
April beyond, then that also potentially
creates some upward levers on the
overall tenure. So there is a little bit
of a floor that is created here just
simply by the economic situation not to
mention the the tariff implications that
you've mentioned and then more broadly
you think about debt deficits Fed
credibility Fred Fed independence and
all of these things to my mind bias
yields slightly higher than where they
are today.
>> How much higher? Not too much. I would
say that the range that we're expecting
for the 10ear this year is somewhere
between four and four and a half. So
we're roughly in the middle of that. So,
I don't think we're going to see a huge
spike, barring a spike in inflation, but
our expectations for inflation are that
it will peak around 3.6%
by June. So, we're still looking at
lifts from tariffs, lifts from perhaps
more consumer spending coming out of
some of those tax refunds, but then
starting to fade out, especially when we
think about base effects in the back
half of the year.
>> When you say lifts from tariffs, do you
mean corporations passing on some of the
tariff impact or what we were all just
talking about moments ago and basically
this question mark regarding AIPA? To
Jonathan's point, it felt like the
market has moved past tariffs, but we
have a huge decision potentially coming
out tomorrow. As Chair Powell said,
you're going to start to see the impacts
of tariffs, not all at once, but it will
be a one-time type of event. So, I still
do think, and I agree with what you were
saying, they're going to be some form of
tariffs. They may not look like what
they look like today, but they will be
there, and we will continue to see
impacts not only to companies, but also
to consumers as they pass some of that
on. And you look at things like core
goods, you look at things like food, you
do see not a surge, but you do see
modest increases there. And this
additional uncertainty, if there's new
scaffolding around what those tariffs
are, um, is going to create some some
mixup in terms of how that composition
of inflation looks and how companies do
need to adapt their supply chains to
adapt to a new reality around.
>> Let's talk about the equity of those
companies. Fold it into the stock
market. Is this a year for the 493 or
the big seven?
>> It's still a year for AI. It's less
about the Mag 7 and the 493. I think the
Mag 7 slowly will become a fading
concept. Especially when you look at
performance. You've seen that in 2023,
every Mag 7 blew out the S&P 500. In
2024, six of them did. Last year, only
two did. And that magnitude of
outperformance was much smaller. And you
saw that broadening out to other
sectors. You had doubledigit earnings
growth, not just in tech, but in
industrials, materials, utilities in the
most recent quarter. And if you put that
together with financials, a perhaps
nonAI trade, you had 18 of the best
performing 50 companies in the S&P 500,
kind of neck andneck with the tech
sector. So you're seeing that broadening
out. I do think for the most part that
is still AI linked if you look
underneath some of these sectors outside
of financials. That is one reason I
really like financials because it is
sort of your counterweight to that when
you think about favorable macro macro
backdrop steepening yield curve
potentially more deregulation or at
least the passive deregulation that
we're seeing right now that's been
beneficial
>> bank earnings coming up next week not
too far away are they JP Morgan coming
up next week the rest of them as well
>> that'll be really important to see
exactly how much of this uh M&A and IPO
boom really does come to fruition and
whether the yield curve steepening is a
very positive thing for some of these
banks as they consolidate market share.
>> Mirror, good to see you. Thanks for
dropping by. Mirror Pandit there of JP
Morgan Asset Management. Let's give an
update on stories worldwide with your
Bloomberg brief. Let's cross over to
Yahara for more. Hey, Yahara.
>> Hi, John. Minneapolis public schools are
closed for the rest of the week [music]
following the fatal shooting of a US
citizen by an ICE agent yesterday. The
37year-old woman was shot [music]
in what federal officials are calling an
act of self-defense. It happened during
what federal officials described as a
targeted operation [music] amid a
broader immigration effort. Meanwhile,
bankrupt auto parts maker First Brands
[music] Group warning it will run out of
cash by the end of January without an
immediate financing injection. The move
could force the company to shut down
some [music] businesses and even sell
other operations. First Brands is in
talks with existing lenders to secure
enough funding to continue operating and
cover bankruptcy [music] costs.
And JP Morgan is taking over Apple's
credit card business from Goldman Sachs.
The transfer will occur in about two
years and will boost Goldman's earnings
per share by 46 [music] cents in the
fourth quarter. Mastercard will remain
the payment network partner for the
credit card. [music] That's your brief
John.
>> Hey yara, thank you. Appreciate it. Up
next on the program, shutting out Wall
Street. [music]
>> Banning investors from putting capital
into the housing market is not going to
make affordability any better. This is a
political narrative that that is pushed
forward for political purposes. It's not
going to make any economic impact.
[music]
>> Up next, we'll catch up with John Navalo
of UBS from New York City. You're
watching Bloomberg TV.
[music]
>> [music]
>> future negative by two ten of 1% on the
S&P 500 pulling back on the NASDAQ 100
too. We're down about a third and a
savannah this morning. The president
looking [music] to shut out Wall Street.
>> Banning investors from putting capital
into the housing market is not going to
make affordability any better. large
investors make for fun scapegoats uh
during election years, but [music]
the the the the hard truth is there are
real families that might be affected by
this. There's not some big loss to
investors in the housing market. Um and
this is a political narrative that that
is pushed forward for political
purposes. It's not going to make any
economic impact.
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
President Donald Trump announcing he
will move to ban institutional investors
from buying single family homes in a
push for housing affordability. planning
to address further details during his
speech at the World Economic Forum in
Davos later on this month. John Navalo
of UBS writing, "We expect minimal
impact from the potential ban on
institutional investor purchases." John
joins us now for more. John, good
morning and welcome.
>> John, thanks for having me.
>> Can we put some numbers on this? So
politically popular and we can deal with
that separately. Let's talk about how
economically effective it might be. Of
all the housing stock at the moment, how
much do these players own?
>> So great headline, right? The big
institutions crushing the small
consumer. At the end of the day, our
builders have about low singledigit to
maybe mid singledigit exposure to the
institutional investors. Now, think
about this. The large institutional
investors, the top 24 have about 3 and
a.5% share of the 15 million single
family rental homes in the market. So,
they own less than it's a fraction of 1%
of the housing stock. And you know what?
They've been net sellers. Think about
Blackstone's been a net seller over the
past decade. So while this is a great
headline, it does very little to move
the needle. We think there's a lot
better ways to to address this.
>> Before we get into some of the remedies
and the other conditions, can we just
talk about the sun bout in certain
states? You went through some numbers,
it's a very tiny proportion of the
overall stock, but in certain states,
how much more concentrated is it
actually in a place like Atlanta,
Georgia? What kind of numbers are you
talking about? Just give us an idea of
things.
>> Yeah, I mean it would it would certainly
be higher than the 3 and a half%. What
that exact number is, I'm not sure.
However, what I can tell you is that,
you know, even in those markets and
these markets have seen some price
realization and some changes that have
occurred, you know, inventory is there.
Uh, so it's not a matter of, you know,
the the the institutional buyers soaking
up all this inventory and and raising
prices. So, it's really in our opinion
just sort of a misguided approach.
>> That said, and before we get into the
remedies, how negative does it look
right now for home builders given the
fact that, as you were saying, there's
been price realization. In other words,
prices have come down and you do have
inventory really out there. Do they have
any incentive to really create new
product right now?
>> So, this is may sound funny to you, but
you know, Lisa, we actually think that
the building blocks are in place for
2026 to be a better year for housing.
Let's think about that for a moment,
right? Inventories have been stabilized
or worked down in many of these key
markets. Uh, intent to buy is still very
strong per our survey work. Mortgage
rates are 100 basis points lower than
they were at this point last year. Input
cost inflation is moderating for the
builders. Estimates been cut by call 30%
over the past year and we're looking at
valuations that are nine times or 27
estimates. I mean the blocks are in
place for housing to be better in the in
2026.
>> It all keeps coming back to the mortgage
rate, doesn't it? Isn't that sort of the
key to unlock some of the affordability
that people are talking about? What is
the mortgage rate that truly changes the
game after years of a mortgage rate
that's north of 6%.
>> So there's not a great answer, but what
I would tell you is that the builders
have been buying down on average to
around 5% and that has seemed to unlock
some some, you know, some demand. Now,
does the existing home market need a
five or five and a half% rate to to
unleash demand? Probably not. I think a
five handle would be very helpful. Um,
but we are down 100 basis points. I do
expect to see an improving in, you know,
uh, existing home market this year.
>> Is this all predicated though on the Fed
cutting interest rates?
>> No, I, you know, I don't think so. Look,
I I here's one of the getting into the
remedies. One of the things that the
government can do in the near term that
could be very effective is leverage the
GSC's which are under conservatorship,
right? They could have them subsidize
mortgages, buy more NBS for their
portfolios, and maybe most importantly,
reduce G fees. I mean, guaranteeing fees
can add 60 basis points to a to a
mortgage, right? And then this goes on
on top of perhaps even, you know,
lowering uh tariffs. Tariffs are $9,000
per home.
>> The president has been flirting with
this idea for months of creating a
housing emergency, actually declaring
one. What solutions would you expect out
of that?
>> I think out of housing emergency, the
idea would be to try to pressure the
states through withholding funding to uh
reduce land restrictions. Now, the
problem with this is that most of these
decisions are made at a local and
municipal level, right? And nimism is
pretty pronounced in a lot of these
areas. Every everyone talks about
wanting low-income housing, but you know
what? Just don't do it in my
neighborhood.
>> You say your tariffs are $9,000 a home.
>> Yeah.
>> Where's that coming from?
>> So, about 6,000 of that is from the
reciprocal, the country reciprocal
tariffs. There's about 2,200 from uh
lumber alone. And then there's, you
know, copper tariffs and other things.
Now, what's interesting is that Trump
has shown some willingness to negotiate
on tariffs, right? We just had the
recent push back of the 232 tariffs on
cabinets and vanities. I mean, it's a
small chunk of the of the overall tariff
bucket, but you know, there are some
things that can be done there.
>> Do you think the home builders would
pass that on
>> if they got that carve out?
>> Look, I think in the near term, we need
to see demand firm, right? Once demand
starts,
>> is that is that a no? No, it's not a no.
What it is is I think in the near- term
de demand needs to firm and like I said,
rates have come down. The if you think
about the incentive loads or or the
percentage of the mortgage that that
home builders are buying down right now,
it's high single digits and in some
cases up to 14%. That is very very
painful on a margin standpoint. So to
the extent that they can pull back on
these incentives, which we expect will
happen over time, it's going to be a
power powerful lever. Just taking a step
back, one thing that we've talked a lot
about on this program is that there is a
real demographic shift and that younger
generations and new people who have
families really can't afford uh buying a
home at this point and sometimes don't
even want to because they prioritize
other things, mobility uh among them in
their lives. How much does that affect
what types of houses are being built? Do
you notice a big demographic shift in
terms of where the demand is coming from
and where it isn't?
interesting. I would say that the
primary first-time buyer, let's pick on
the millennials, have done things a
little bit later in life. They're a
better finance group. Um, and they're
reaching the period where they're
getting married, they're having
children, things that necessitate more
space. Now, are they buying smaller
footprint homes? For sure. Are they
buying a little bit further away from
the city centers? For sure. These are
things that actually help the new
construction market because you can't do
that in the existing home market. And
then importantly on top of that if you
think about the National Association of
Realtors affordability index uh right
now you know anything over 100 is is is
positive. Right now we're at about 106.
If you were to take the mortgage rate
that they're using which is 6.33% and
plug in that 5% that we were talking
about where the the builders are buying
down to all of a sudden you get a you
get a number that's very very close to
the historical you know 30-year average
of affordability which is pretty good.
Just quickly, would you buy any of the
weakness in the home builders in the
last 24 hours?
>> Absolutely. Yeah, we we are uh decidedly
bullish on on on the group heading into
the year.
>> John, it's good to see you. Thank you,
sir. John Navalo there of UBS on home
builders following a rocky 24 hours for
that sector. Yeah, you saw some pretty
significant moves in some of the
homebuilders because ultimately uh even
if it is the major buyer, the fringe
buyer that has been a price setter could
potentially uh not be as engaged should
there be some sort of ban on
institutions buying homes. Honestly,
again, what will actually get passed
versus the signaling is a huge question.
>> They are a political target into the
midterms.
>> Yeah. But to your point, the president
is saying, "I need Congress to codify
this." this. But I was also struck that
Gavin Newsome, who's going to be giving
an address this evening as well for
California, did the same exact thing
when it comes to homes in California.
So, this is politically a lot of
appetite. You see it on the right and
the left when it comes to voters. They
want to see action because you're going
after big bad Wall Street. It feels
good. Even though this is the
president's friend and big donor, um it
feels good. But to Neil Da's point, you
know, uh it just not going to work.
>> I know California is beautiful, but if
you've got wealth in California right
now, you're leaving. you are staring
down the barrel of the next 12 months,
24 months in that state. What are you
thinking?
>> Well, Jensen Wong didn't seem to mind in
terms of the billionaire tax. Someone
asked him about that. He's like, it's
okay cuz he has like $500 billion. So,
you know, what is it? Yeah, exactly.
>> He's like in his leather in his in his,
[laughter] you know, very expensive
alligator leather jacket.
>> When they say it's a good idea, the next
question should be, are you going to
write a check? Just write a check right
now while you're waiting for the policy.
They'll accept it.
>> Well, ask him. I think Jensen Hong, if
you're listening, please write in.
>> Will you write a check?
>> Governor Newsome will cash that
donation. You know, I
>> I don't I I don't think it's a wrong
question.
>> Okay. Up next, we'll catch up with the
Fed Governor Steven Mer and Michael Gap
and Morgan Stanley here to react and
Nita [music] Richardson of ADP.
>> The economy is kind of treading water.
>> Not a lot of hiring, a lot of caution.
We've just been consistently trending
higher in the unemployment rate.
>> Strength in the labor market, [music] I
think eventually could cause some of
that soft economic data to catch up.
>> The economy could grow even when we have
a labor market that's not growing much
at all.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. The third hour of
Bloomberg Savannah starts right now and
your scores look like this.
>> [music]
>> futures on the S&P 500 adding to
yesterday's losses pulling back just a
touch on the S&P by 2/10en of 1%.
[music] Lots of data in our future.
8:30, 30 minutes away, jobless claims.
Then tomorrow, the payrolls report.
Payrolls Friday. We're looking for
something around 70k for the December
jobs number.
>> Yeah. And that's been creeping higher as
you pointed out earlier, John, which I
think is important given some of the
other labor market indicators that
[music] have been relatively positive.
Key question is what does the market do
with this, right? Is that considered a
positive? Does that mean that the Fed
isn't necessarily as incentivized
[music] to cut rates or does it not
matter at all? because we can't
understand these numbers without also
understanding the unemployment rate
where that [music] is as well as what
the break even rate is which we also
don't fully understand. So a lot of
questions maybe we'll get some answers
>> and to mirror's point it could [music]
just be frozen because of supply and
what's going on on the immigration front
which is why the unemployment rate is so
important. What is so interesting though
about tomorrow is it's the first clean
read in a while [music] given the fact
that Washington decided to shut down for
43 days.
>> We always say that and then people say
you know we we got to take this bit out
got [music] to take that bit out and
this is what you should really be
looking at. I know I'm I'm a little
loathed to say this is clean because
people will give you 14 reasons why it's
not clean. I just sort of remember when
you were lobbying for the Fed to push
back their [music] meeting uh to get the
labor market report to get CPI and that
would have not helped in any way because
it was so messy and noisy that people
just disregarded it entirely. [music]
It is a data dependent market but is it
really because what does this data mean?
I think that that's increasingly what
people are feeling right now. Great
tease for the data we'll get later this
hour and tomorrow 8:30 Eastern time for
jobless claims today and for payrolls
tomorrow morning. [music] Coming up this
hour, Fed Governor Steven Marin on the
path ahead for interest rates. Nila
Richardson of ADP breaking down the
latest jobs data and Veno Krishna of
Barclay's expecting doubledigit EPS
growth this year. We begin this hour
with investors searching for direction
in a pivotal year potentially for the
Federal Reserve. Fed Governor Steven
Myron doubling down on his dovish stance
calling for the central bank to cut
interest rates by more than a percentage
point in 2026. Governor Myron joins us
now for more. Governor, good morning and
a happy new year.
>> Happy New Year. Thanks for having me
back.
>> It's good to see you. You've been very
very transparent about where you were on
the dot plot and what your forecast is.
So let's start there. Where are you for
this year? Where's your dot? What are
you looking for?
>> Yeah, so I'm unsurprisingly the lowest
dot. I'm looking for about a point and a
half of cuts. A lot of that is driven by
my view of inflation. And I gave a
speech about this and you know about a
month ago in in December at Columbia
University. My view is that almost all
of the excess inflation over Target is
due to quirks of how we calculate
inflation. So as you have talked about
with many of your guests many times
before, shelter inflation really really
lags a lot. And because average tenant
rents have caught up to new tenant rents
because market rents have been running
at a 1% rate for a couple of years now.
I think it's appropriate to sort of
think about underlying inflation a as as
abstracting from that a little bit. You
know the shelter inflation is indicative
of a supply demand imbalance from 2022
2023 not 2027. We need to be making
policy for 2027 because of policy lags.
And their side of it is the portfolio
management fees that I'm sure you've
talked about again with many of your
guests many times. Stock market went up
mechanically inflation moves higher
despite many of your other guests I'm
sure no doubt telling you about fee
compression in the assets manage asset
management industry for decades. So you
abstract from those two things
underlying inflation is running at 2.3%.
That's with the noise of our target.
>> That sounds like an argument for
neutral. You're making an argument
though for this year for accommodation.
Where does that come from? Why are you
looking for accommodative monetary
policy stance coming out of Washington?
>> Yeah. So, so, so a couple things. First
of all, as I just said, underlying
inflation is running within noise of our
target. And that's a good indication of
where overall inflation is going to be
going in the medium term. But then the
unemployment rate is 4.6%. Right? So,
that means that there's about a million
Americans who don't have jobs, who could
have jobs without causing unwanted
inflation, without causing unwanted
upward pressure and inflation. I don't
think it's right to tell those people
that they shouldn't have jobs because
we're just mechanically calculating
inflation in some silly way. I just
don't think that makes a lot of sense.
The other thing is that because we've
kept policy tighter than I think it
ought to be, that makes me mark down our
growth forecast for the future relative
to where it should be. And so if we
didn't need if we hadn't kept been
keeping policy what in my view too tight
over the last year or so it wouldn't be
necessary to provide that type of
>> just quickly you say mark down in the
future because the Fed actually marked
up GDP for 26. Where do you mean in the
future?
>> No. So like when you look at these dots
right the in the in the in the SE
they're projections of appropriate
policy and projections of economic
fundamentals like growth and inflation
conditional upon upon uh upon
appropriate policy. So my my my
projections for growth and inflation are
conditional upon getting my policy
forecast, right? My policy projection.
If I don't get my policy projection
because the rest of the committee is
more hawkish than I am, then we wouldn't
meet my growth in inflation projections.
We'd we'd underperform them. And so
because policy has been in my view too
tight for the last year, that means that
my expectations of growth will
ultimately be will ultimately be
unsatisfied because we didn't get the
policy that I wanted.
>> You have GDP uh 2.6% roughly over the
next few years. Are you saying that the
appropriate growth rate is something
like that 2% and 2.6% and not
necessarily 3% or above?
>> Well, so that's conditional upon getting
upon getting the the policy projection
that I want. Right. And I think and and
I think and part of that is due and part
of the reason why it's a little bit
lower than I think 2.8 2.9 is probably
where more where it would be if we got
if we sort of had the right policy the
entire time. Part of the reason it's a
little bit lower than that is because we
got to account for policy having been
too tight over the last 12 months.
Right. There's also a question about the
reaction function. We've been talking
about the data that we're going to be
getting tomorrow. What would you have to
see to change your view? I mean, if we
saw, let's say, the unemployment rate go
down to 4.4%. Would you start to
question whether 150 basis points of
cuts is really necessary this year?
>> That's a great question. And let before
I answer it, let me step back a foot and
say that my forecast is conditional upon
shelter inflation coming down, right?
And there's people who agree with me, by
the Like you look at the research from
Goldman Sachs, you know, it's pretty
similar to where I am on shelter. Uh
they've got shelter inflation running
below the pre-COVID rate by the end of
the year, similar to where I have it. Um
where I differ from a lot of my
colleagues again is thinking that goods
inflation is not being driven by
tariffs. I don't see tariffs drive being
driven by goods inflation. I see goods
inflation I'm not sure what's driving
it. I listed a few possibilities in in
the speech in December. I I think the
juryy's still out on that one. Um, but
if I end up being right on inflation and
gold, sorry, on shelter, if I end up
being right on shelter and Goldman ends
up being right on shelter and I end up
being wrong on tariffs and everybody
else is right on tariffs, then we're
going to undersshoot our target.
Two-sided risk is back. And I think that
people haven't really internalized that
yet. And I think it's important to
appreciate that. Now, where would I be
wrong? Because so much of my
disinflation forecast is based upon
shelter. I'm going to be wrong if market
rents pick up again.
>> So, are you saying this is all an
inflation issue and not anything to do
with the labor market?
>> No. As I said before, unemployment is
unemployment is somewhat above the
somewhere somewhat above what I where I
view the natural rate. And so it's 60
basis points a million people uh you
know of unnecessary unemployment that we
could reduce by having a more
appropriate policy stand.
>> But to Lisa's point, is there a line in
the sand on the unemployment rate
tomorrow? That would maybe have you
think about this a little bit
differently? What if the unemployment
rate drops down 4.5% or even 4.4%.
>> Yeah, I would absolutely adjust my I
would absolutely adjust my projection.
So if you look at the September SE,
right, I was 50 basis points higher than
I was in the December SE. Part of the
reason why I adjusted my dot down by 50
basis points is because the labor market
uh didn't perform per my expectations
that I had in September and because
inflation actually outperformed to the
downside, right? So, it was appropriate
to adjust my dot down. And then on top
of that, we had the two type policies I
described. So, if the data come in a
little bit better, yeah, of course, I'm
going to adjust my expectation.
>> In just the past few weeks, we've heard
from a number of your colleagues talking
about how actually they're feel like
we're pretty close to neutral. Have you
made any inroads convincing them that
they're not right about this? the way
you see the world.
>> You know, I can't I can't speak for
them, but uh you know, I think that
every month we come in and the
unemployment rate ticks up a little bit
and the inflation, you know, the
inflation data sort of seem to be doing
a little bit better. I think it's really
difficult to argue that policy is
neutral, especially when we've been on
this this course of gradual loosening of
the labor market for a couple years now.
Uh it's just really difficult in my mind
to sort of argue that that that that
policy is not is not restricting the
economy.
>> A couple of words I want to pick out and
one is neutral and the other is correct.
I think it's very difficult to say this
is where I think neutral is and this
should be the correct policy rate
because it's such a guessing game as to
where neutral is and I think you
understand that. Of course, I also want
to pick up the difference between being
an economist and being a policy maker.
When you say two-way risk, I think that
really makes us all think about speed
and the appropriate speed to adjust
monetary policy when there is two-sided
risk. Why do you think we should be
going this fast this year in your mind
to cut that aggressively in 2026?
>> Sure. So, so same thing as I said in the
last few times I've been here. We're
still materially above neutral in my
mind and there's not really a reason to
be materially above neutral if the labor
market is in a weakening path and
inflation is an underlying inflation's
already running close to our target and
on trajectory to hit it to hit the
target. There's just not a real reason
to be so restrictive and we're running
unnecessary risks on the labor market by
being so restrictive. And so it in my
mind it's like we're selling options for
nothing and I don't see why we're
selling those options for just requires
such a strong amount of conviction
though coming out of the pandemic. I
think what we all learned was a massive
degree of humility because there were so
many things that we thought were obvious
that actually things just turned out to
be completely the opposite. And I wonder
if this year we should have the same
approach to monetary policy. As a
monetary policy official, do you have to
sit here and say actually the prudent
way to do things is actually to move
slowly and work things out meeting by
meeting? Because that's what I hear from
other members of the committee and I'm
wondering why you see things so
differently.
>> Sure. So, first of all, I'll say that I
was right about inflation uh coming out
of the pandemic. And if you sort of go
back to 2020 when I was at the Treasury
Department, you know, we were arguing
for a smaller stimulus package because
we didn't see we didn't see COVID as a
similar type of recession that we had
post GFC, post.com bubble where you had
persistent deleveraging, dragging on
demand that caused a balance sheet
recession with a persistent slow crappy
recovery, right? COVID was like a switch
turned off, right? People stayed home
and the switch turned on when they
started going out again. And so there
wasn't going to be that slow recovery
and that's why we were pushing for for
smaller stimulus packages because we
didn't think that it merited that type
of package. We were concerned about
inflation picking up. So I did I I did
get that I did get that right. Um and I
do understand the value of of of being
cautious and and and and having humility
in these things. I will say my forecast
as I said before is predicated upon
shelter inflation. And shelter is a
weird thing where market rents give us a
window into measured into the path of
measured inflation. That's very
different than other sections of the
inflation index. We know that market
rents, a weighted average of single
family, multif family market rents have
been growing at a 1% rate for two years
now. We know that average tenant rents
have caught up to new tenant rents.
Right? There are statistically
mechanical relationships that give you a
lot of confidence that measured shelter
inflation is going to come down a lot.
Right? You don't have that type of
confidence when you're talking about
goods. I said before, I don't know
what's driving goods inflation, right? I
I don't have this this forecast that
goods inflation is going to is going to
come down because it's just driven by
tariffs that my colleagues seem to have,
right? I don't have that that type of
confidence on areas of the index that I
think are much more difficult to
understand. Shelter is a mechanical
thing from market rents to measured
inflation. And therefore, it's in my
mind appropriate to have that high
degree of confidence. And to Lisa's
point, where would I be wrong? If the
market rents pick up again, if the
market rents pick up, then I'm going to
say my mechanical pass through from me
from market rents into measured shelter
inflation is getting invalidated and
we'll see that.
>> Just to hone in a little bit on the
housing aspect since that has been a
really hot topic, how much signal would
you take if you did start cutting more
aggressively at the Federal Reserve and
tenure yields rose and that actually
created an issue for mortgage rates and
the pass through there? It might
actually help with disinflation, but it
might not exactly be the outcome that
you're looking for.
>> Yeah. So, this is an area where I'd want
to where I'd want to have uh I'd want to
not jump to conclusions because I'd want
to sort of try and analyze it very
carefully and think about what the
market is saying, think about what the
economy is doing. And if it's the case
that you cut rates and you sort of get a
burst of activity in some sector of the
economy that's not housing and that ends
up crowding out housing, then you know,
you wouldn't really mind. You're focused
on aggregates. You're focused on
inflation on aggregate inflation. You're
focused on aggregate unemployment,
right? um if it looks like you cut rates
and the bond market is giving you a very
clear signal uh and I'm not just talking
about like you know trading behavior for
a week. I'm talking about a very clear
signal uh over the course of a period of
time that it's not the right move. Then
I think yeah you want to you want to
take that signal and you want to think
about what's the market telling me that
I missed. Is the market right? Am I
wrong? Uh let me rethink my framework.
>> You're going to miss this when it's all
over. It feels like you're enjoying
this. Are you going to miss this when
you have to leave the Federal Reserve?
Uh well, you know, uh that's not part of
my forecast, you know.
>> Are you going to hang around?
>> Oh, I have no idea. You know, we'll see.
I don't I don't make personnel
decisions.
>> Okay. You've had heard nothing at all
from anybody.
>> Uh you know, I think that uh you know,
we're very clearly now getting into
getting into the new year and the
president, you know, the president has
said in the past that he would make
announcements as we got there. So, uh
you know, I I imagine we'll be getting
some uh at some point, but uh you know,
I don't know. I don't know anything
about my future. So, I would I would I
wouldn't mind [laughter] it.
>> What a position to be in. We're all
sitting here waiting just like you,
Governor. Thank you. It's good to see
you.
>> Thanks for having me.
>> Thanks for being so generous with your
time. The Federal Reserve Governor
there, Steven Min. Let's give you an
update on stories worldwide this morning
with your Bloomberg brief. Let's cross
over to Yahara for more. Hey, Yahara.
>> Hi, John. President Donald Trump saying
he will request a more than 50% increase
in next year's military budget to $1.5
trillion. The president also calling for
military contractors to cut dividends
and buybacks. He also called out RTX
specifically threatening to stop doing
business with the missile maker unless
it invests more in its production
capabilities. [music]
And Chevron shares are edging higher on
our reporting. The company's in talks
[music] with US officials over extending
its license to operate in Venezuela. The
oil major currently produces [music] and
exports Venezuelan crude under a special
license that exempts it from US
sanctions. [music] The talks coming as
President Trump prepares to meet with
oil executives at the White House
tomorrow. And China plans to approve
some imports of Nvidia H200 [music]
chips as soon as this quarter, sources
telling us here at Bloomberg. Chinese
companies will be allowed to purchase
the [music] chips for select commercial
use. The H200 will be barred from the
military, sensitive government [music]
agencies, critical infrastructure, and
state-owned enterprises due to security
concerns. [music] That's your Bloomberg
brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Thanks for the update.
Up next on the program, the morning
cause plus Mike Apen and Morgan Stanley
joins us. Expecting the jobs data to
pave the [music] way for a January rate
cut. That conversation just around the
corner.
[music]
You have to be [music] very very careful
about how you invest long-term at scale.
You can have some bumps in the road
during the course of the year [music]
that definitely change the trajectory on
liquidity, on momentum, on risk
appetite. So, but I I think the
long-term trend is is [music] quite
positive. Uh, but I do think you have to
be very measured about how you execute
your business [music] model.
>> Fantastic lineup of guests so far this
morning right here on Bloomberg
Surveillance. That was the Apollo Global
Management President Jim Zeltza [music]
joining us a little bit earlier on this
morning. If you are just joining us now,
welcome to the program. Equity futures
shaping up as follows on the S&P 500
[music] negative by about a tenth of 1%.
That's the price action. Here are some
morning calls. First up, Piperander
lowering its price target on Chevron to
174, noting a bearish crude outlook
weighing on the entire sector.
Elsewhere, City cutting its price target
on LAR to 113, referring exposure to
heavy construction materials over
[music] residential as stocks down by
about a tenth of 1%. And finally,
Barclay's raising its target unveil to
1550, seeing upside risk to precious
metals due to expectations for further
Fed easing. Vali,
>> I think it's val. I've gotten that wrong
before. People laugh at me.
>> Volley.
>> Yeah,
>> we're down about 1.9% on that. Let's get
back to the Federal Reserve. Let's stick
with the Fed doubling down on a doubbish
outlook.
>> I'm on surprisingly the lowest dot. I'm
looking for about a point and a half of
cuts. A lot of that is driven by my view
of inflation. I gave a speech about this
and you know about a month ago in in
December at Columbia University. My view
is that almost all of the excess
inflation over target is due to quirks
of how we calculate inflation.
Fed Governor Steven Marin calling for
the central bank to cut interest rates
by more than a percentage point in 2026.
Michael Gapen of Morgan Stanley
expecting a jobs data to pave the way
for an interest rate cut later on this
month. Michael joins us now for more.
Mike, good morning. Good to see you.
>> Good morning.
>> What did you think of that interview
with Governor Marin? His argument not
just to go once but to go quite a few
more times in 2026 for a year ahead.
>> Right. Well, I think there's there's two
paths I think for Fed rate cuts. One is
I think as you noted in the lead that if
while firms are continuing to pass
through tariffs which should extend into
2026, the hiring rate is likely to
remain low and the risk is the
unemployment rate continues to to trend
higher. If that happens, the Fed may put
in more rate cuts to support the labor
market. If that doesn't happen, so say
the December report tomorrow is four
five or as you noted, maybe even a 44
unemployment rate and looks like hiring
is stabilized. The next path to rate
cuts is triggered by inflation. Does
inflation settle down in the second half
of the year? So, further normalization
is warranted. So, I do think that
there's multiple paths for for cuts in
in 2026. I'm not convinced we need more
than 100 basis points of cuts, but I
think you could make the case that one
to two more rate cuts, two more rate
cuts in 2026 is warranted. They could
come early if the labor market is soft.
They could come later if it's about
inflation. Well, let's start with this
month. Much harder to predict that may
be than the next 12. The jobs number on
Friday. So 70K is the estimate for the
headline payrolls number. The
unemployment rate expected to come down
just a bit to 4.5%. What's a bad number
on Friday? What gets the decision at the
end of the month that the Federal
Reserve done?
>> I think it you need I think what I'll
call a solid 46. So it needs to be 4.6
something. It doesn't need to round up
to 46. I think it has to be 46 or above
to tell the Fed that the path for the
unemployment rate is still higher and in
contrast to their expectations that it
should should drift down and it and I
think to your point we all want the data
to be clean so it would have to be a
clean reading right what I think
consensus is saying and there's a
legitimate case for this is that there
was a large number of unemployed on
temporary layoff in November if that
reverses entirely in December it could
bias the number down and you could end
up with a four, five or below. If that's
the case, the Fed's likely not cutting
at the end of the month. So, if it's a
clean reading on 4.6 or above, like
4.625, for example, or something, that
would tell the Fed the direction is
still higher, maybe you should frontload
some of your cuts and that would open
the door to to January.
>> We're talking entirely about the labor
market and Governor Myron didn't seem to
be concerned about inflation in any way.
And yet, we're still talking about a
dual mandate very much in conflict. Do
you think from an economic perspective
that the dual mandate isn't quite as in
conflict as it was say 2 months ago that
now it's is a labor market that needs to
be prioritized at the expense of
inflation that still is above 2%.
>> On balance, yes, because I think that
the majority of the inflation data
paints a picture of tariffs are pushing
goods prices higher but fairly modestly.
We think maybe they've pushed up
inflation by say about 50 basis points.
there's maybe another 20 20 to 25 to go.
So the tariff pass through is about in
line with expectations. There doesn't
seem to be a lot of upside risk to that.
It's happening, but it's not out of line
per se. And then the rest of inflation
is consistent with something at 2% or a
little bit above in 2026. So I think the
inflation data has given them comfort
that okay, it's moving higher, but it
should start to to diminish after pass
through is complete. So in the second
half of 2026, it should come down. Based
on on that, the dual mandate is a little
more in balance.
>> I'm just wondering how housing fits into
this given the fact that there seems to
be such a focus on that. How much the
Fed is going to be focused on this as an
issue and getting long-term rates lower,
which is not necessarily a call for
lowering front end rates. I know this
sounds uh like why are they dealing with
bond market math but at the same time
people have almost been judging them and
that this president has been judging
them on housing [laughter] affordability
as much as anything else.
>> Well, it's it's look it's housing is a
difficult story. There's a lot going on
in housing and I don't think there are
really many easy answers. It's the
combination of years of underbuilding,
lack of supply, a mortgage rate that's
still hundreds of basis points above the
effective mortgage rate. Um, and home
prices are up, you know, roughly 70% or
so over 5 years. So, that's going to be
difficult to reverse. The answer for
housing, it's not palatable for
politicians, but I think it's true, is
time.
>> It's just time.
>> Well, we're on a November.
>> Yes, I I understand. Um, they're on a
different clock than than we are. But
the the lockup nature of the housing
market has slowed down rates of
transactions in a way that will mean it
just will take years to to work out. I
think that's just truth.
>> Neil Da did talk about in a note about
mortgage back securities and how the Fed
speaks about them. Is that one way the
Fed could remedy this problem
>> in terms of say purchasing mortgage
back?
>> Yes. But then you're you're back to
honest QE, right?
um what they're doing in T bills they're
characterizing as something different
front end interest rate control I I
agree with that but if you start buying
longer duration instruments
that's a it's a different story
>> you know as we reflect on that
conversation we had with the Federal
Reserve governor 101 15 minutes ago I
thought the end of the conversation was
really revealing you've got someone who
sits at the Federal Reserve's got a
family and has got no idea what his job
is going to be next month because no one
said anything about who's going to
replace him in the Federal Reserve
>> yeah it's right now a very difficult
situation I'm sure for everyone on the
Fed because they don't know who the
leader is going to be. They do don't
even have full understanding of what the
composition of the Federal Reserve uh
governing board will be like come the
end of next year.
>> We don't even know if Powell for sure is
going to give up his governor seat even
though we know obviously he he's no
longer going to be chair. But Steven
Myin, I mean first revealing though he
did say that's not in my forecast. So it
does sound like he wants to stay past
January 31st when his term is up.
>> But just to appreciate as we forecast
the year ahead, we've got no idea what
leadership looks like in the second half
of the year.
>> Yeah. Even people at the Fed currently
have no idea about the leadership.
[music]
>> People are saying, you know, it's going
to be Kevin. Kevin who I don't know, but
it could could be someone else at this
point, too.
>> Could be someone.
>> Could be a Scott.
>> Could be a Chris.
>> Exactly.
>> Could be a Rick.
>> Yeah.
>> Could be a Mike. Michael Gin and Morgan
Stanley. It's good to see you. Thank
you.
>> Thank you.
>> Up next on the program, the latest
jobless claims. We'll catch up with Nita
Richardson of ADP.
>> [music]
>> The cash opens about 60 minutes away.
We've got some jobs data in about 20
seconds time. Jobless [music] claims
just around the corner. The scores into
that data shaping up as follows. Equity
futures on the S&P down by a tenth of
[music] 1%. Similar move on the NASDAQ
in the bond market switch of the board
anchored around 4 to 420 on a 10-year
maturity for the [music] last 4 months
or so. There we are in between that
range at the moment. 41613 and a front
end of the curve anchored around a very
noisy Fed, but a Fed that's not going to
do much over the course of the next few
months based [music] on what we've heard
from a number of people. 34696 is where
the 2-year is right now. Let's get you
some data. Let's cross over to Mike McKe
for more. Good morning,
>> Mike. Peak estimate 212K.
>> Well, John, it looks like we have our
last clue before the payrolls report
tomorrow. 28,000 jobs for uh uh
unemployment claims filings. That's up
from uh 199 was the initial report.
That's been revised up to 200,000 for
the prior week. Now, remember, these are
pretty low numbers, but we also had uh
the last two weeks be holiday weeks, so
we could see a jump up in the weeks
after that. This does come after the
Challenger job cuts this morning uh
released earlier uh early than uh as
expected by Challenger down 8.3%
basically having the number of job cut
announcements in December and the lowest
since July of last year. Uh so it does
look like the labor market is just kind
of hanging in there at this point. We
also get the trade balance -29.4
billion. That's a shockingly low number.
Uh the forecast was for 58.7
and that should uh do uh some good in
terms of pushing up the revised third
quarter growth numbers when we get them.
Uh exports were up 2.6% imports down
3.2%. There's the reason we are not
importing anything. A lot of imports uh
going sideways because of the tariffs no
doubt. And finally, uh, we get
productivity. The first read on
productivity for the third quarter,
4.9%, just a tick lower than
anticipated. Uh, and it is up from 3.3%
in the second quarter. Unit labor costs
fall by almost 2%. 1.9%. They were up 1%
in the second quarter. And this is
important because if companies can get
this kind of productivity, they don't
necessarily need to hire. Remember, we
had very strong growth in the most
recent quarter. And uh it is a result of
not adding a lot of people but adding a
lot of some sort of capital for uh
productivity. And if that continues then
maybe we see companies still holding off
on hiring while they wait to see what uh
the Trump economic policies are going to
be.
>> Well Mike let's talk about the policy
now. The following question highly
dependent on the president's objective
but ultimately is his policy working?
Well,
uh, that depends on what his policy
actually is. And I I I am not really
joking about that. I'm trying to be
serious in the sense that, um, if the
president's goal is to bring down the
trade deficit, he's done that. It's the
smallest since 2016. But that's
basically irrelevant to the overall
economy and isn't really going to make
anybody's lives a little uh, better. Uh,
the productivity numbers are good.
that's probably from AI. So, I don't
know that that has a lot to do with him.
And the jobless numbers, uh, the payroll
numbers that we're seeing are more a
result of his policies and uncertainty
about what's going to happen going
forward as companies wait for further
information. So, um, it doesn't look
like he's making a lot of progress,
although if productivity were to
continue at these levels, we would see
it be disinflationary and that might get
him back on the affordability track.
Matt McKe, thank you. Mike down in
Washington DC, the smallest trade
balance in quite a while in the United
States and I think for the president
he's going to point to that as a
success.
>> Yeah, the smallest going back to 2009.
Pretty shocking to see that. Uh you can
look into the numbers and get more
details, but this really does highlight
how exports are increasing and imports
are decreasing just as the policy kind
of was prescribing. He's drafting the
truth social post right now that this
policy is working. when they go into, at
least what I've heard, when they go into
these meetings with trade partners and
want to discuss tariffs and trade deals,
the top of the page shows the trade
deficit these c these countries have
with the United States. And that is what
is a key driver in the president when he
thinks about when he is enacting policy.
To Mike's point, some of the policy at
some points can be confusing, but he
cares about this deeply.
>> Whether it's a success or not is highly
dependent on his objective. His
objective was to get that number down,
and that's what he's got to your point.
Exports up and imports absolutely
cratering. Got to talk about the jobs
market too. Want to see more of this
claims around 200k. Starting to see a
bit of a bounce in the data in the last
week or so. And hopefully we see the
same thing tomorrow morning.
>> Yeah. To me, the fact that the last
previous week of data was also revised
just minimally almost the same level as
what it was before at 200,000 versus
199,000. People saying maybe that was a
messy read that it wasn't actually that
low. It was actually that low. It raises
this question of is this a healthy
market or is this a stagnating labor
market where yeah, people are not being
laid off, but they're also not being
hired. Right now, the data that we've
gotten so far this week points to
actually a slight pickup in the labor
market. Do we see confirmation of that
tomorrow?
>> Let's hope that's going to be the case.
Nita Richardson of ADP joins us now for
more. Nita, welcome and happy new year.
Good to see you.
>> Oh, it's great to be here.
>> We'll park the trade story. Let's focus
on jobs. Are we going to see a bounce
tomorrow morning? I think so. But it's
going to be a highly concentrated
bounce. It's going to be focused on
health care and leisure hospitality. And
the thing about that is that it
underlines this K-shaped economy, right?
Health care and health services are
expensive for most consumers. And
leisure and hospitality is discretionary
for all consumers. And so where we're
getting strength is reflective of this
K-shaped spending pattern.
>> Are we going to see that through the
rest of the year? Can the status quo
persist because we've seen this for
quite a while.
>> We have a really strong demographic
tailwind for health care services in
this country. Uh the dynamics of an
older population certainly suggest that
we'll keep seeing hiring. But this is
where things get tricky because
sometimes when we don't see hiring, and
I think this is true in construction,
for example, it's because there's not
the workers there. This has been a very
choppy labor market. the the overall
labor market is very jagged in terms of
its patterns. And I think where market
watchers go wrong is they spend too much
time looking at the headline number and
not enough time unpacking what's
underneath because what's underneath is
where all the action is in terms of the
future of the jobs market. So what's
happening underneath uh the numbers of
manufacturing in particular and and not
just in construction but more broadly
because that has been the lagard that
has consistently been in recessionary
territory and contraction territory uh
when it comes to employment when it
comes to actual numbers. How and at the
same time you're seeing services
continue to pick up. What does that look
like under the hood?
>> It's part of where the economy is going.
We are a serviceoriented economy and the
tariff policy to date hasn't produced
consistent job growth in that sector.
Now we did see a bounce actually in the
ADP numbers in in earlier in 2025 but
that bounce wasn't sustained because
there are other headwinds in that sector
that needs to be addressed. So for this
December report, we saw a loss in the
good sector of 3,000 jobs, only a 1,000
pickup in construction, 5,000 loss in
manufacturing. But that's not new.
That's just a trend that has been
continued since like even during the
great expansion we had from 2010 to
2019. This is not a new trend. So what
like shakes up that trend? I'm not sure
right now, but we're not seeing it.
Well, I guess the reason why I point to
that in particular is because we hear
all these companies that are building
out infrastructure that are investing in
the physical world once again. We talk
about bringing manufacturing back to the
United States. Why are we not seeing
that in the numbers even at a time when
the trade deficit as we just saw did
shrink to the lowest since 2009? Well, I
think the answer that we've seen to date
is productivity gains. But I'm going to
suggest that's only half of the
equation. Because if you want real
growth in any sector, you need two
things. You need productivity and you
need people. Both of them lead to
sustained growth over the long term. So
how do we get those productivity in the
hands of the worker so that we can
maximize output? AI has the potential to
do that but I think it's going to take a
little more time.
>> Do we have enough supply of workers?
>> Yeah.
>> Um in some areas we have too much. In
some areas we don't have enough.
Healthcare I don't think we have enough
workers. Care economy not enough
workers. construction, not enough
workers. There are accountant services.
In fact, any place where you see an
infrastructure, whether it's physical um
the care economy or financial, when it
comes to accountants, there's not enough
people. And I think that's a different
question than um are we in a cyclical
downturn. It's really about a structural
future where the labor market has
changed dramatically.
>> Well, I was going to ask you where where
does this all leave the Fed? But I think
the more pertinent question would be
then how do you solve for this kind of
mismatch? That's the important question
because the Fed acts short-term. Um I
don't think there's any disagreement
about that. They are poised to address
cyclical short-term factors in the
economy. They are not poised to address
the structural change that we know is
coming with AI, with demographics, and
with this longstanding um shortage in
key areas of the economy. And that is
really what's going to sustain the US
over the long term.
>> Do you think that's lulling them into
some kind of policy mistake through no
fault of their own? Just that they're
trying to address something that is
unfixable.
>> I think the why matters more. Um,
usually you see a jobs number and I say
usually like over the last 20 years you
see a jobs number. It's either good or
bad. Now you see a jobs number and you
got to ask yourself why. Why is it low?
Is it low because firms are, you know,
uh, feeling good about the productivity
they're seeing in the future and they
don't need to hire? Is it low because of
immigration and they can't find the
workers? Is it low because they're not
seeing the consumer demand that they
used to see? We need to know why, not
just the number. And that's the place
where the Fed is right now. They have to
unpack the why in a way that they didn't
maybe during the great expansion. And
so, um, yeah, it makes policy trickier.
>> Nita, it's good to see you as always.
Thank you. Nila Richardson there of ADP
on the labor market. To Neil's point,
typically we'd have a bias. We'd sit
around the table. We'd see any given
jobs number and be like, "Yep, there's a
cyclical read here, up or down, good or
bad." Things are different this time.
Things have changed a lot.
>> And this is something the Fed has
acknowledged. They've said ultimately
there are a lot of questions. We don't
know how much is I related. So far,
they're viewing the potential adoption
of new technology as being highly
disruptive in the economy, which is why
they want to run it a little bit hotter
so that they can allow people to keep
getting jobs. That is a thesis that is
driving a lot of Fed policy and I do
wonder how much that's going to bias
them to cut rates more aggressively.
>> We need to define the they as well
because this year I've got no idea who
they actually is. I still don't know the
Fed chair is.
>> Yeah, they don't have an idea who they
is.
>> I'm surprised by that. I you know I we
we torched the Biden administration
again on this issue. They were so slow
nominating a new Fed chair, at least
confirming Pal to a second term for a
bunch of reasons. And I thought it was
silly at the time. I I'm surprised how
long this is taking to select a new Fed
chair for the next few years,
>> especially because it's not as if it's
not a talked about issue at the White
House. It's not as if this issue hasn't
gotten a lot of playing time. So, that's
really the issue to me is what is it
being used for if it's being publicized
as a controversial we're going to do it,
we're going to do it, we're going to do
it. I mean, what is the sort of meaning
behind why it's taken so long?
>> I think it's twofold. One, they do like
that the Fed obviously has cut three
times last year, so there was no rush.
But now I think it's cuz the president
has not gotten a yes for his from his
number one choice and that's the
Treasury Secretary. And I think until he
really feels good about who he is going
to put in that seat, he is not going to
say he's not going to announce it. He's
still, I think, trying to convince
someone to take a different job.
>> That's the latest on the Federal Reserve
and the jobs data. More jobs data
tomorrow. Payroll is just around the
corner, 8:30 Eastern time tomorrow
morning. Let's give you an update on
stories worldwide this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Back with us, here's
Yahara for more. Hey yara. Hi, John.
Recapping the latest unemployment data.
Initial jobless claims for last week
coming in at 28,000. [music] That is up
from 9,000 from the previous week, but
still 4,000 below estimates. Continuing
claims came in at 56,000 and that was
above estimates. Meanwhile, President
Donald Trump saying he'll ban
institutional investors from buying
single family homes. The president's
posting on Truth Social, "People live in
homes, not corporations." and saying he
would talk more about the issue at the
World's Economic Forum in Davos [music]
later this month. And prices in the
secondary market for luxury watches rose
to the highest in more than 2 years. The
Bloomberg [music] subdial watch index
gained 8% in 2025 with dress watches and
smaller jewelry style pieces [music]
gaining ground. Gen Z collectors are
seeking more unique watches over the
once dominant blocky sports models.
That's your Bloomberry. John,
>> I'm pleased we got over that. It was an
important thing to get over and move
[music] on from.
>> Well, I kind of like those.
>> Those big bulky watches.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I kind of like them. I think
that's a really
>> I love the elegant ones that like look
like a bracelet. You know, I want the
ones that look like, [music] you know,
>> Lisa's just, you know,
>> just wants an argument. [laughter]
>> She doesn't even wear it. She doesn't
even wear it. Okay. You know,
>> this is what happens to a [laughter]
Bremo. Winds up the kids, throws a
grenade, walks away.
>> Stop projecting, John.
>> Yeah. to [laughter] my time too all the
time. Up next on the program, Venu
Krishna of Barclay's expecting double
digit earnings growth this year. Plus,
Jihara is back with your morning movers
with Soho House shares sliding as it
faces a funding gap for its merger. I'd
be told to behave all the time when I
was a kid and my dad would turn around
to my sisters and say, "It's good for
you. It's good [laughter] for you." From
New York City, you're watching Bloomberg
TV.
My projections for growth and inflation
are conditional upon getting my policy
forecast right, my policy projection. If
I don't get my policy projection because
the rest of the committee is more
hawkish than I am, then we wouldn't meet
my growth and and inflation projections.
We'd we'd [music] underperform them. And
so because policy has been in my view
too tight for the last year, that means
that my expectations of growth will
ultimately be will ultimately be
unsatisfied because we didn't get the
policy that I wanted. That was Governor
Steven Wangan on the Federal Reserve
looking for some pretty aggressive
action this year. Cuts of more than 100
basis points. What was it? 150.
>> 150.
>> 150. And still does not know his future
on the committee because there's no
decision about the future of the Federal
Reserve, which is bonkers.
>> Yeah. He doesn't have personnel control
decisions. Neither does anybody else
except for one man who has not made the
announcement yet. So we are all left
wondering.
>> Not in his forecast. He told us from the
Austin about his future. So [music] we
can't you down to the cash open about 42
minutes away. Equity futures look like
this. We're down about a tenth of
[music] 1% on the S&P. We need to get
you some morning movers out there as
well. So let's do that with Yhara. Hey
Yahara.
>> Hi John. If you're a defense company
CEO, you've had quite the 24 [music]
hours. All these stocks sank yesterday
after President Trump said that he was
calling [music] for a cap on executive
pay dividends unless the companies
ramped up their production capabilities.
But the mood has shifted after yesterday
later in the day he said that he was
upping the US defense budget wanting to
get it to $1.5 [music]
trillion. So as a result RTX Corp up 3%
[music] Loheed Martin up 6% Northre
Grumman also up on that news. Meanwhile,
uh, Chevron Chevron shares are up nearly
7/10en of 1% this [music] morning. And
this is on several reports that it is in
talks with the government to expand its
[music] its license to operate in
Venezuela. Reuters is reporting that
this would allow the company to increase
crude exports both uh to its own US
refineries, [music] but also to other
buyers. And we end on the fancy members
onlyly club Soho House. shares are
sinking down nearly 10% [music]
due to a hiccup in its take private
deal. Apparently, one of its investors
now says that it can't pony up 200 a
$200 million commitment. So, Soho House
is scrambling to find uh other
alternative funding. But for now, the
mer the the vote [music] for the merger
to take it private is still on for
tomorrow. And you can still apply for a
membership at Soho House, which will run
you about about $3,200 a year [music]
here in New York City. John,
>> thanks for the update. Yara, thank you.
It just never kind of worked for me. The
idea that you had a private members club
becoming a public company because then
all kind of things were going to go
wrong. Just does not work.
>> You mean exclusivity? The idea that you
sort of are commoditizing exclusivity
and suddenly it's no longer exclusive.
one everywhere now and
>> yeah they just opened one in AA and
they're opening up one [music] in
upstate New York on the side with this
>> they're moving they're moving into so
well I actually don't have a so house
membership cuz I didn't need to cuz I
feel like it wasn't that exclusive
exclusive everyone everyone had it and
also yeah I was a five Harford Street
member
>> this is so on let's be honest I'm in a
club of one
>> okay all right [laughter]
good to know got no social life this is
it
>> that's what I'm saying it this is my
this is my uh social interaction for the
day
>> this is it I speak to you guys
>> pretty much how Yeah, you know. So, we
count you down to the opening bell.
Here's the trading diary for the week
ahead. At 5:30 Eastern time, President
Donald Trump holding a policy meeting.
Friday, [music] we're going to have the
December payrolls report. Then, um
sentiment numbers, too. Plus, of course,
keep note of this. The Supreme Court
announcing its first decisions of the
year. Looking ahead to next week's CPI
data, earnings season kicking off with
JP Morgan and Delta. Things really
starting to ramp up over the next week
or so. Let's stick with the earnings.
Vina Krishna of Barclay's writing,
"While we do think that current street
estimates for the next 12 months are
overly optimistic, we still expect the
S&P to print doubledigit EPS growth this
year." Venna joins us now for more.
Veno, good morning. Good to see you.
>> Good morning.
>> I'm pleased you talked about this EPS
story because I mentioned this earlier
this week to start the year. If you went
off the headlines, you'd think so much
of the last year was just m just about
multiples growing and had nothing to do
with earnings, but earnings have been
pretty decent. You expect more to come.
Why? Yeah, actually you know
interestingly we are not the
beneficiaries of the base effect. In
other words, it's not as if we had poor
earnings and hence you have a low bar to
beat. uh you know earnings for la next
year or or 25 should be in the $275
range which means double digits versus
the previous year and we are once again
forecasting about 11% growth which is a
tad lower than where the consensus is
and but I think the story is more or
less the same uh in the when
[clears throat] we break up the market
and see where it's coming from uh the
bulk of it is coming from big tech and
tech which we think outperforms
expectations and uh the rest of the S&P
which is call it 55% of the market uh
that will be modestly up but will
underperform compared to where the
consensus is but we'll end up with
roughly 11% earnings growth which is the
same story as last year.
>> So do you reject the broadening out
trade that so many people think this
year will be the year
>> we have rejected that for almost three
years now if you if you recollect that
has been pitched over and over and over
again. Now I do think that we are making
incremental progress but the term is
incremental uh because uh even if you
look at where it is broadly tech and
tech related beneficiaries right which
revolve around AI for example so that's
the reason why on one hand we like
utilities and the broader tech including
big tech uh and on the other hand it's
financials which are benefiting from a
pick up in capital markets so I I have a
tough time seeing meaningful full
broadening in the US equity markets.
Even this year,
>> there was a theory that in order for big
tech to keep performing, you had to see
the rest of the universe start to see
the benefits of some of the artificial
intelligence, the broadening out in
that. Why do you think that 2026 isn't
the year where we need to see that?
Because on one hand if you look at let's
say the consumer space right sentiment
is still low and both for staples and
discretionary uh we're not out of the
woods yet in terms of uh for example
staples they don't have pricing power
they still are facing cost constraints
there's still uncertainty about the
trickle down effects of tariffs uh which
will slowly and steadily still show up
in pockets um so I don't think you know
and if you look at big tech their core
businesses continue to be so strong and
so healthy and that is what has been
driving all their cash flow was a
earnings growth which has been beating
consensus by almost you know 8 to 10
percentage points quarter after quarter.
So I don't think that in the near term
gets disrupted. Uh but to your point
though AI is getting adopted slowly and
steadily but the biggest beneficiaries
of adoption are the tech industry
itself. When your software stack is
better by 40% you're benefiting. when
your ad optimization is killing it,
you're benefiting, right? But enterprise
usage is still relatively low and that
will spread with applications being
developed, that is a 3 to 5 year
phenomenon and there'll be disruption
and new business models and all that
will happen. Um, you know, so so as we
wait for that process to unfold, the the
companies which are driving it are the
single biggest beneficiaries. And that
by the way is a trend we have observed
over the last 30 years in the fifth tech
cycle in America right now. The biggest
beneficiaries of technology change is
the tech sector itself.
>> John brought this up earlier when it
comes to AI and your outperform on on
this trade. How much is that really
going to be dedicated on open AI having
a good fundraising round? Everyone seems
to be talking about this IPO.
>> It's an interesting question. I think I
don't think the big tech is dependent on
on open AI per se bubble or not
>> but you bring a very valid point because
open AI at half a trillion dollar
valuation in the last funding has become
a central player in how this narrative
will evolve. So to the extent that open
AI uh falters in in in what they are uh
expected to deliver in the next you know
two years then I think the the AI theme
itself will will moderate and that has
the potential to pull down everything
starting from big tech in terms of where
we are right now. So I think open AI
does remain central uh even though it's
a private player right now given their
involvement in multiple angles. Uh but
at the same time look at how the
narrative has changed. Six to eight nine
months ago everybody wrote off Google
because they thought open AI is going to
take over the search business. What has
happened now? It's the tables have
turned. Now the concern is about more
open AI whether they'll get the funding.
Can they grow the revenue streams? Can
they have a truly broad business model
and such?
>> Vener lots to think about and a good
start to 2026 with you sir. Looking
forward to more the same. Thanks for
dropping by.
>> Thank you. [music]
>> Thank you sir. Happy new year. Ben
Krishna of Barclays. Tomorrow's the last
day. All right. You were going to say
that. I knew it.
>> You know, then we're done. [music]
>> Came out.
>> We're already over the Larry David.
>> Are we limitations? I think it's 3 days.
>> That's That's aggressive.
>> I think seven December 15th. We're
already over it.
>> Three days aggressive. All right.
Payroll Friday tomorrow morning. Looking
forward to that. Steve Major of
Traditions going to join us. Pria Misra
of JP Morgan, Mike Collins of Py,
[music] plus Jeff Rosenberg of Black
Rockck.